# Environment Overview

This guide describes how to configure and manage database high
availability in a {product-title} environment. This configuration allows
for disaster mitigation: a failure in the primary database does not
result in downtime, as the standby database takes over the failed
databaseâ€™s processes. This is made possible by database replication
between two or more database servers. In {product-title\_short}, these
servers are *database-only {product-title\_short} appliances* which do
not have `evmserverd` processes enabled. This is configured from the
`appliance_console` menu at the time of deployment.

This guide describes two types of appliances used in high availability:

  - *Database-only {product-title\_short} appliances*, which do not have
    `evmserverd` processes enabled or a user interface.

  - *Non-database {product-title\_short} appliances*, which are standard
    appliances containing a user interface and which have `evmserverd`
    processes enabled.

In this configuration, a failover monitor daemon is configured and
running on each non-database {product-title\_short} appliance. The
failover monitor watches the `repmgr` metadata about the database-only
appliances present in the cluster. When the primary database-only
appliance goes down, the non-database {product-title\_short} appliances
start polling each of the configured standby database-only appliances to
monitor which one comes up as the new primary. The promotion is
orchestrated either by `repmgrd` on the database-only appliances or is
done manually. When the non-database {product-title\_short} appliances
find that a standby has been promoted, {product-title\_short}
reconfigures the setup by writing the new IP address in the
`database.yml` file to point to the new primary.

<div class="note">

Manual steps are required to reintroduce the failed database node back
as the standby server. See [???](#reintroducing_the_failed_node).

</div>

Note, this procedure also does not provide scalability or a multi-master
database setup. While a {product-title\_short} environment is comprised
of an engine tier and a database tier, this configuration affects only
the database tier and does not provide load balancing for the
appliances.

## Requirements

For a high availability {product-title} environment, you need a
virtualization host containing at minimum four virtual machines with
{product-title\_short} installed, consisting of:

  - One virtual machine for the primary external database containing a
    minimum of 4GB dedicated disk space

  - One virtual machine for the standby external database containing a
    minimum of 4GB dedicated disk space

  - Two virtual machines for the non-database {product-title\_short}
    appliances

The database-only appliances should reside on a highly reliable local
network in the same location.

<div class="important">

It is essential to use the same {product-title} appliance template
version to install each virtual machine in this environment.

</div>

Correct time synchronization is required before installing the cluster.
After installing the appliances, configure time synchronization on all
appliances using `chronyd`.
