# Overview Dashboard

Overview shows your virtual environment’s events, reports, and
configurable alerts. This information supports better information
technology decision making and predictions for future virtual machine
management.

When you log in to the console, it brings you directly to the **Overview
Dashboard** page by default. The console uses widgets to organize this
page, providing you with a default set of commonly used widgets. The
configuration items on these widgets are clickable, allowing you to
drill down directly to a referenced item.

Customize this page to include charts and reports you specifically want
to see as soon as you log in to the console. You can add, remove, move,
minimize, zoom into, and maximize widgets. Only users with the proper
access can create widgets.

## Adding a Widget

You can add widgets to the dashboard to accommodate the information you
want to see upon login.

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Overview \> Dashboard</span>.

2.  Click ![2259](images/2259.png) **(Add a Widget)**.

3.  Select the widget you want to add from the list.

<div class="note">

Only widgets that are not currently showing on the dashboard will appear
in this list.

</div>

## Resetting to the Default Set of Widgets

You can reset to default set of widgets according to your needs with the
following steps:

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Overview \> Dashboard</span>.

2.  Click ![1900](images/1900.png) **(Reset Dashboard Widgets to the
    defaults)**.

## Removing a Widget

You can remove a widget when you no longer need the widget to be
displayed in the dashboard.

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Overview \> Dashboard</span>.

2.  From the widget that you want to remove, click
    ![2260](images/2260.png) **(Remove from Dashboard)** in the upper
    right corner of the widget.

3.  Click **OK**.

The widget is removed from the dashboard, but it is not deleted. It can
be added again if needed.

## Zooming in to a Chart Widget

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Overview \> Dashboard</span>.

2.  From the chart widget that you want to enlarge, click
    ![2261](images/2261.png) **(Zoom in)** in the upper right corner of
    the widget.

The enlarged chart is opened in its own pop-up window. To close this
window, click ![226X](images/226X.png) **(Close)** in the upper right
corner.

## Opening a Chart or Report Widget in Full Screen View

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Overview \> Dashboard</span>.

2.  From the chart or report widget that you want to enlarge, click
    ![fullScreenIcon](images/fullScreenIcon.png) **(Full Screen view)**
    in the upper right corner of the widget.

3.  Click **OK**.

## Minimizing or Maximizing a Widget

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Overview \> Dashboard</span>.

2.  From the chart or report widget that you want to maximize, click
    ![2263](images/2263.png) **(Minimize)** or ![2264](images/2264.png)
    **(Full Screen)** in the upper right corner of the widget.

## Downloading a Report Widget as a File

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Overview \> Dashboard</span>.

2.  From the chart or report widget that you want to download as a PDF,
    click ![2134](images/2134.png) **\[(Download PDF)** in the upper
    right corner of the widget.

3.  Click **OK**.

# Creating Dashboard Widgets

## Creating a Report Widget

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Overview \> Reports</span>.

2.  Click on the **Dashboard Widgets** accordion, then choose the
    **Reports** folder.

3.  Click ![1847](images/1847.png) **(Configuration)**, then click
    ![1862](images/1862.png) **(Add a new Widget)**.

4.  In the **Basic Information** area, type in a **Title** and
    **Description**. By default the widget will be active as soon as you
    create it. To make it inactive, uncheck the **Active** box.
    
    ![2265](images/2265.png)

5.  From the **Report Options** area, select the filters until you are
    at the report you want for this widget. Select up to four columns
    from that report. Finally, for **Row Count**, select the number of
    rows that you want displayed.
    
    ![2266](images/2266.png)

6.  In the **Timer** area, click the **Run** drop down to specify how
    often you want the widget data to get updated. The options displayed
    will depend on which **Run** option you choose. Select **Hourly**,
    **Daily**, **Weekly**, or **Monthly**.
    
    ![2267](images/2267.png)

7.  Select a **Time Zone**. Type or select a date to begin the schedule
    in **Starting Date**. Select a **Starting Time** based on a 24 hour
    clock in the selected time zone.
    
    <div class="note">
    
    If you change the time zone, you will need to reset the starting
    date and time.
    
    </div>

8.  In the **Visibility** area, select **\<To All Users\>**, so that all
    users can use this widget no matter what user role they are
    assigned. Select **\<By Role\>** to assign this widget to specific
    user roles. Select **\<By Group\>** to assign this widget to
    specific groups.

9.  Click **Add**.

## Creating a Chart Widget

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Overview \> Reports</span>.

2.  Click the **Dashboard Widgets** accordion and click the **Charts**
    folder.

3.  Click ![1847](images/1847.png) **(Configuration)**, then click
    ![1862](images/1862.png) **(Add a new Widget)**.

4.  In the **Basic Information** area, type in a **Title** and
    **Description**. By default the widget will be active as soon as you
    create it. To make it inactive, uncheck the **Active** box.

5.  From the **Chart Report** area, select a chart to display in the
    widget.
    
    ![2269](images/2269.png)

6.  In the **Timer** area, click the **Run** drop down to specify how
    often you want the widget data to get updated. The options displayed
    will depend on which **Run** option you choose. Select **Hourly**,
    **Daily**, **Weekly**, or **Monthly**.
    
    ![2270](images/2270.png)

7.  Select a **Time Zone**. Type or select a date to begin the schedule
    in **Starting Date**. Select a **Starting Time** based on a 24 hour
    clock in the selected time zone.
    
    <div class="note">
    
    If you change the time zone, you will need to reset the starting
    date and time.
    
    </div>

8.  In the **Visibility** area, select **\<To All Users\>**, so that all
    users can use this widget no matter what user role they are
    assigned. Select **\<By Role\>** to assign this widget to specific
    user roles. Select **\<By Group\>** to assign this widget to
    specific groups.

9.  Click **Add**.

## Creating a Menu Widget

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Overview \> Reports</span>.

2.  Click the **Dashboard Widgets** accordion and click the **Menus**
    folder.

3.  Click ![1847](images/1847.png) **(Configuration)**, then click
    ![1862](images/1862.png) **(Add a new Widget)**.

4.  In the **Basic Information** area, type in a **Title** and
    **Description**. By default the widget will be active as soon as you
    create it. To make it inactive, uncheck the **Active** box.
    
    ![2273](images/2273.png)

5.  In the **Menu Shortcuts** area, use the **Add a Shortcut** dropdown
    to select all the places in the console that you want to add to this
    widget.

6.  In the **Visibility** area, select **\<To All Users\>**, so that all
    users can use this widget no matter what user role they are
    assigned. Select **\<By Role\>** to assign this widget to specific
    user roles. Select **\<By Group\>** to assign this widget to
    specific groups.

7.  Click **Add**.

## Editing a Widget

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Overview \> Reports</span>.

2.  Click the **Dashboard Widgets** accordion and select the widget you
    want to edit.

3.  Click ![1847](images/1847.png) **(Configuration)**, and then
    ![1851](images/1851.png) **(Edit this Widget)**.

4.  Make the required changes.

5.  Click **Save**.

## Copying a Widget

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Overview \> Reports</span>.

2.  Click the **Dashboard Widget** accordion, and select the widget you
    want to copy.

3.  Click ![1847](images/1847.png) **(Configuration)**, and then
    ![1859](images/1859.png) **(Copy this Widget)**.

4.  Type a unique name for the widget and edit its properties.

5.  Click **Save**.

## Deleting a Widget

<div class="note">

Default widgets cannot be deleted, but they can be copied.

</div>

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Overview \> Reports</span>.

2.  Click the **Dashboard Widget** accordion and select the widget you
    want to delete.

3.  Click ![1847](images/1847.png) **(Configuration)**, and then
    ![1861](images/1861.png) **(Delete this Widget from the Database)**.

4.  Click **OK**.

## Importing a Widget

You can share widgets between appliances using the export and import
features.

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Overview \> Reports</span>.

2.  In the **Import/Export** accordion, click **Widgets**.

3.  In the **Import** area, click **Browse** to select an import file.

4.  Click **Upload**.

## Exporting a Widget

You can share widgets between appliances using the export and import
features.

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Overview \> Reports</span>.

2.  In the **Import/Export** accordion, click **Widgets**.

3.  In the **Export** area, select the widgets that you want to export.

4.  Click **Export**.

## Generating Widget Content Immediately

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Overview \> Reports</span>.

2.  Click the **Dashboard Widgets** accordion and select the widget you
    want to generate.

3.  Click ![1847](images/1847.png) **(Configuration)**, and then
    ![1847](images/1847.png) **(Generate Widget Content now)**.

4.  Click **OK**.

The content is generated immediately instead of waiting for the next
scheduled update. Generation of widget content is shown under **Tasks**,
accessed from the settings menu.

# Reports

Click the **Reports** accordion under <span class="menuchoice">Overview
\> Reports</span> to see a list of reports available. These reports have
been constructed to help you view the most commonly requested and
significant data. From here, you can also create reports if you have
appropriate access. ManageIQ provides a large group of default reports
organized into categories. Each category has its own set of subfolders.

  - **Configuration Management**: hardware, application, network,
    service, user account, operating system, and snapshot information
    for all of your items.

  - **Migration Readiness**: information related to items required to
    migrate a virtual machine.

  - **Operations**: free space on registered and unregistered virtual
    machines, power states for virtual machines, and SmartState analysis
    status.
    
    This category also provides reports relating to the operation of
    ManageIQ, such as user IDs and snapshots taken by ManageIQ.

  - **VM Sprawl**: usage information and disk waste.

  - **Relationships**: virtual machine, folder, and cluster
    relationships.

  - **Events**: operations and configuration management events.

  - **Performance by Asset Type**: performance of your virtual
    infrastructure.
    
    You must be capturing capacity and utilization data to get this
    information.

  - **Running Processes**: information on processes running on a virtual
    machine.
    
    You must have domain credentials entered for the zone to collect the
    information for these reports, and the virtual machine must have
    been analyzed at least once.

  - **Trending**: projections of datastore capacity, along with host CPU
    and memory use.

  - **Tenants**: quotas report aggregated by each tenant that shows
    quota name, total quota, in use, allocated, and available. The
    report currently lists all tenants and there is no nesting
    information available by parent and child tenants.

  - **Provisioning**: provisioning activity based on the approver,
    datastore, requester, and virtual machine.

For a complete list of reportable fields in ManageIQ, see
[appendix\_title](#_appe_reportable_fields).

## Running Reports

There are two different ways to generate a report: by scheduling the
report, or running the report manually by clicking the report generation
button on the **Reports** page. ManageIQ uses interactive report
generation so that reports are placed on a queue. A visual indicator of
the reports status is shown. All reports are automatically saved so that
they can be downloaded and analyzed later.

### Generating a Single Report

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Overview \> Reports</span>.

2.  Click the <span class="menuchoice">Reports \> All Reports</span>
    accordion. Navigate to the report you want to view by selecting the
    appropriate folder.

3.  Click ![1847](images/1847.png) (**Queue**).

4.  The report generation is placed on the queue and its status shows in
    the reports page.
    
    ![2274](images/2274.png)

5.  Click ![2106](images/2106.png) **(Reload current display)** to
    update the status.

6.  When a report has finished generating, click on its row to view it.

## Scheduling a Report

You can view historical data by creating reports on a scheduled basis.
In addition, scheduled reports can be emailed directly to users.

<div class="note">

You may need to disable, change the report filter, or change the
frequency of a schedule. To do this, you will need to edit the schedule.

</div>

There are two ways to schedule a report:

Add a new Schedule through the **Reports** accordion:

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Overview \> Reports</span>.

2.  Select a report from the **Reports** accordion and click
    ![1847](images/1847.png) **Configuration**.

3.  Click ![1862](images/1862.png) **Add a New Schedule** or click the
    Schedules accordion and click ![1847](images/1847.png)
    **Configuration** \> ![1862](images/1862.png) **Add a New
    Schedule**.

or

Add a new Schedule through the **Schedules** accordion:

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Overview \> Reports</span>.

2.  Click the **Schedules** accordion.

3.  Click ![1847](images/1847.png) **Configuration**.

4.  Click ![1862](images/1862.png) **Add a New Schedule**.

Adding new Schedule details.

1.  In the **Basic Information** area, type in a **Name** and
    **Description** for the schedule.
    
      - By default, **Active** is checked to enable the scan.

2.  The **Report Selection** area is pre-populated if you added the
    schedule directly from the report. If you are adding from the
    schedule according, use the **Filter** drop downs to select the
    report that you want to schedule.

3.  In the **Timer** area, click the **Run** drop down to specify how
    often you want the analysis to run. Your options after that will
    depend on which run option you choose.
    
      - Click **Once** to have the analysis run just one time.
    
      - Click **Daily** to run the analysis on a daily basis. You will
        be prompted to select how many days you want between each
        analysis.
    
      - Click **Hourly** to run the analysis hourly. You will be
        prompted to select how many hours you want between each
        analysis.
    
      - Type or select a date to begin the schedule in **Starting
        Date**.
    
      - Select a **Starting Time** based on a 24 hour clock in the
        ManageIQ appliance’s Time Zone.

4.  Use the **E-Mail after Running** feature to send an email after the
    report has been generated to selected users. The email will include
    a link to the report.
    
      - Check **Send an E-mail**.
    
      - In **From (leave blank for default)**, type in the sending
        email.
    
      - Use **Add a User**, to select a specific user. The user must
        have a valid email address entered under accounts.
    
      - Use **Add (enter manually)** to type in the address not
        registered to a User.
    
      - Then, click ![1862](images/1862.png) **(Add)**.

5.  If you are sending an email after the report runs, then you can
    select further options under Email Options.
    
      - Check **Send if Report is Empty** if you want an email even if
        no records exist in the report.
    
      - Next to Attachments, check if you would like the report attached
        as a **Text**, **CSV**, or **PDF** file.

6.  Click **Add**.

<div class="note">

See
<https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en/red-hat-cloudforms/4.7/paged/general-configuration>
in the *General Configuration* guide, to learn how to verify the address
and validate outgoing email settings.

</div>

### Modifying a Report Schedule

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Overview \> Reports</span>

2.  Click the **Schedules** accordion and select the schedule you want
    to edit.

3.  Click ![1847](images/1847.png) (**Configuration**), then click
    ![1851](images/1851.png) (**Edit this Schedule**).

4.  Make the required changes.

5.  Click **Save**.

### Running a Scheduled Report Immediately

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Overview \> Reports</span>.

2.  Click the **Schedules** accordion and select the schedule you want
    to run.

3.  Click ![1847](images/1847.png) (**Configuration**), then click
    ![1847](images/1847.png) (**Queue up this Schedule to run now**).

## Viewing Reports

Once you have run a report, you can view it at any time after the first
scheduled time has occurred.

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Overview \> Reports</span>.

2.  Click the **Saved Reports** accordion or the **Reports** accordion.

3.  Click on the instance of the report you want to view.

### Changing Report Views

After running a report, you can customize your view in several ways.

Some reports can be viewed as charts as well as lists. This will depend
on the type of data and on how the report has been created. Where
applicable, you will see these additional buttons:

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Overview \> Reports</span>.

2.  Click a completed report to view. Click one of the following buttons
    for the view you want:
    
      - Click ![graph view](images/graph-view.png)for **Graph View**.
    
      - Click ![hybrid view](images/hybrid-view.png)for **Hybrid View**.
    
      - Click ![tabular view](images/tabular-view.png)for **Tabular
        View**.

#### Filtering Report Data

To filter the report information you see, use the ![data
view](images/data-view.png) **Data View** button.

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Overview \> Reports</span>.

2.  Click a completed report to view.

3.  Click the ![data view](images/data-view.png) button for **Data
    View**, which opens the search field.

4.  Select the criteria from the dropdown menu to filter by, and enter
    your search term.

5.  Press **Enter** to search.

#### Sorting Reports by Column

In ![tabular view](images/tabular-view.png) tabular and ![hybrid
view](images/hybrid-view.png) hybrid view, you can sort a list of
reports by column.

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Overview \> Reports \> Saved
    Reports</span>.

2.  Click a report name to show a list of completed reports.

3.  Click any blue column heading to sort the reports by the values in
    that column.

### Downloading a Report

Download reports to analyze the data using other tools or to print the
report.

When you click on one of the supplied reports, you are presented with a
group of buttons to download the report in one of three formats or to
view the report in a full screen.

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Overview \> Reports</span>.

2.  Click the report you want to view.

3.  Click on the row for the instance of the report you want to
    download. If the report needs to be generated, see [Running
    Reports](#running_reports).

4.  Click on the report download buttons for the type of export you
    want.
    
      - Click ![textImage](images/textImage.png) **(Download this report
        in text format)** to download as text.
    
      - Click ![textImage](images/textImage.png) **(Download this report
        in csv format)** to download as a comma-separated file.
    
      - Click ![2134](images/2134.png) **(Download this report in PDF
        format)** to download as PDF.
    
      - The report is automatically named with the type of report and
        date.

<div class="note">

Edit and delete buttons are only visible to administrators and super
administrators. Edit and delete functions are only available to
customer-created reports. The ManageIQ pre-configured reports cannot be
edited or deleted, but they can be copied.

</div>

### Showing a Report in Full Screen

View the report in full screen to examine report details. From full
screen, you can also print the chart that accompanies a report.

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Overview \> Reports</span>.

2.  Click the <span class="menuchoice">Reports \> All Reports</span>
    accordion and select the report that you want to view.

3.  Click the **Saved Reports** tab and select a report.

4.  On the **Saved Report** detail screen, click
    ![1847](images/1847.png) (**Configuration**), and click
    ![2133](images/2133.png) (**Show full screen Report**).

The report will appear in full screen view. Click back on your browser
to return to the reports explorer.

## Adding a Report

Add reports if the default reports do not include what you need or you
want to narrow the scope of a report. For example, you may want a report
that shows only Windows virtual machines.

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Overview \> Reports</span>.

2.  Click the <span class="menuchoice">Reports \> All Reports</span>
    accordion.

3.  Click ![1847](images/1847.png) **(Configuration)**, then click
    ![1862](images/1862.png) **(Add a New Report)**.

4.  In the **Columns** tab, edit the **Basic Report Info** area.
    
    ![2287](images/2287.png)
    
      - Type a unique name in **Menu Name** for how you want the report
        described in the menu list.
    
      - Type the **Title** you want displayed on the report in title.

5.  Add fields in the **Configure Report Columns** area.
    
    ![2288](images/2288.png)
    
      - Use the **Base the report on** table dropdown to choose a table
        to get fields from.
        
        <div class="note">
        
        If you change the report base or the interval, all selections
        below will be reset.
        
        </div>
    
      - Select fields that you want in the report from **Available
        Fields**, and then click ![2289](images/2289.png) `(Move
        selected fields down)`. In addition to the fields, you can also
        select any tags that you have created and assigned.
    
      - Change the order of the fields in the report by clicking
        ![2290](images/2290.png) `(Move selected fields up)` or
        ![2289](images/2289.png) `(Move selected fields down)`.

6.  Click on the **Consolidation** tab to consolidate and aggregate data
    points into maximum, minimum, average, and total. Specifically, this
    would be useful for analyzing performance data over a specific
    period of time.
    
    <div class="note">
    
    Please note that if you do this, you will not see individual
    records, but rather the calculation as a column header.
    
    </div>
    
    ![2291](images/2291.png)
    
      - Select the columns to group by.
        
        ![2292](images/2292.png)
    
      - For each numeric field selected in the report, you can click the
        dropdown under **Calculations**. Check the calculations you want
        to use.

7.  Click on the **Formatting** tab to set the size of paper for a PDF
    and column header format.
    
      - From the **PDF Output** area, select the page size from the
        dropdown.
        
        ![2293](images/2293.png)
    
      - From **Specify Column Headers and Formats**, type the text you
        want displayed for each field. For each numeric field, you can
        also set the numeric format.
        
        ![2294](images/2294.png)

8.  Click on the **Styling** tab to change the color of the text or the
    background for a row based on a condition.
    
    ![2295](images/2295.png)
    
      - Use **Style** to select the format for the value. You can choose
        to change the text color or the background.
    
      - Use **If** to create a conditional statement for the style.

9.  Click on the **Filter** tab to set filters for the data displayed in
    the report. There are two types of filters: the first is the
    **Record Filter** which is the primary filter of the main tables
    records, the second is also a **Display Filter**, which is a
    secondary filter of rows based on the fields of the child table.
    Click ![1851](images/1851.png) in the appropriate area to use the
    expression editor to choose the appropriate options for your
    criteria. Based on what you choose, different options will show.
    
      - Click **Field** to create criteria based on field values.
        
        ![2296](images/2296.png)
    
      - Click **Count of** to create criteria based on the count of
        something, such as the number of snapshots for a virtual
        machine, or the number of virtual machines on a host.
        
        ![2297](images/2297.png)
    
      - Click **Tag** to create criteria based on tags assigned to your
        resources. For example, you may want to check the power state of
        a virtual machine or see if it is tagged as production.
        
        ![2298](images/2298.png)
    
      - Click **Registry** to create criteria based on registry values.
        For example, you may want to check if DCOM is enabled on a
        Windows system. (Note that this applies only to Windows
        operating systems.)
        
        ![2299](images/2299.png)
    
      - Click **Find** to seek a particular value, and then check a
        property. For example, finding the `Admin` account and checking
        that it is enabled.
        
        ![2300](images/2300.png)
    
      - Click ![1863](images/1863.png) `(Commit Expression Element
        Changes)` to add the expression.
        
        <div class="note">
        
        The filters that you apply will show at the bottom of the report
        so that you know which filters have been applied.
        
        </div>

10. Click on the **Summary** tab to select sort order, sort type,
    groupings, and group calculations for the report. **Summary** groups
    rows of data based on the sort breaks. You can only sort by fields
    that display in the report.
    
    ![2301](images/2301.png)
    
      - Set the primary sort in **Sort the Report by**.
    
      - Set the next sorts in **Within Above Field, Sort By**.
    
      - Select the type of sort, ascending or descending, in **Sort
        order**.
    
      - In **Show Sort breaks**, select **Yes** to show the sort breaks,
        **Counts** to show sort breaks with the count, or **No** for no
        sort breaks.
        
        ![2302](images/2302.png)
    
      - For any numeric field, you can select to show minimum, average,
        maximum, and total in the sort break.

11. Click on the **Charts** tab to create a chart for the report. This
    is not required.
    
    ![chartsScreen](images/chartsScreen.png)
    
      - Use **Choose a chart type** to select a type of chart. Note that
        some charts may not produce the result you are looking for based
        on the types of fields in the report and its sort order.
    
      - If you only want to see the top values, select the number of top
        values from **Top values to show**.
    
      - If you want to see the total number of values that are not
        categorized or evaluated against others, check **Sum 'Other'
        values**.

12. Click on the **Timeline** tab to select a timeline for the report.
    You must have a field of time or date format to use this feature.
    
    ![2304](images/2304.png)
    
      - Use **Base Timeline on** to select a column in date or time
        format for the report.
    
      - Select a unit of time for the first band in **First band unit**.
    
      - Select a unit of time for the second band in **Second band
        unit**.
    
      - Select a unit of time for the third band in **Third band unit**.
    
      - Select an **Event to position at**.
    
      - Select the range for the event to position from **Show events
        from last**.

13. Click the **Previews** tab to see a sample of your report.

14. When you have the report that you want, click **Add** to create the
    new report.

<div class="note">

After the new report is created, to make the report accessible from the
report menu, you must add it to a report menu.

</div>

## Copying a Report

Use this feature to copy a report that is similar to one that you want
to create. By copying a report, you only need to make minor edits
instead of creating an entirely new report.

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Overview \> Reports</span>.

2.  Click the <span class="menuchoice">Reports \> All Reports</span>
    accordion and select the report that you want to copy.

3.  Click ![1847](images/1847.png) (**Configuration**), then click
    ![1859](images/1859.png) (**Copy this report**).

4.  On the Columns tab, edit the **Basic Report Info** area to include a
    new **Menu Name**. Each **Menu Name** must be unique.

5.  Make any other changes you need. See "Adding a Report" for details
    on the changes you can make.

6.  Click **Add**.

## Editing a Report

If you find that a report is not giving you the data that you need, you
can edit it after it has been created. Note that only reports that you
have created can be modified. Only administrators and super
administrators of ManageIQ can add, copy, edit, and delete reports.

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Overview \> Reports</span>.

2.  Click the <span class="menuchoice">Reports \> All Reports</span>
    accordion and select the report you want to edit.

3.  Click ![1847](images/1847.png) (**Configuration**),
    ![1851](images/1851.png) (**Edit this Report**).

4.  Make any changes you need.

5.  Click **Save**.

## Deleting a Report

Delete reports when you find that they are no longer useful. Only
administrators and super administrators of ManageIQ can add, copy, edit,
and delete reports.

<div class="note">

Please note that only customer-created reports can be deleted.

</div>

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Overview \> Reports</span>.

2.  Click the <span class="menuchoice">Reports \> All Reports</span>
    accordion and select the report you want to delete.

3.  Click ![1847](images/1847.png) (**Configuration**),
    ![1861](images/1861.png) (**Delete this Report from the Database**).
    
    <div class="note">
    
    The **Delete this report from the Database** option will only appear
    on reports you have created. Default reports cannot be deleted.
    
    </div>

4.  Click **OK**.

## Importing a Report

Reports are stored in the VMDB; however, you can share customized
reports among VMDBs. To do this use the export and import feature of
reports.

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Overview \> Reports</span>.

2.  Select **Custom Reports** from the **Import/Export** accordion.

3.  In the **Import** area, click **Browse** to select an import file.

4.  To overwrite an existing report with the same menu name, select
    **Overwrite existing reports**.

5.  Click **Upload** to import the report to the **Company-Custom**
    folder.

## Exporting a Report

Reports are stored in the VMDB. Custom reports may be shared among
VMDBs. Share your custom reports using the export and import features.

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Overview \> Reports</span>.

2.  Select **Custom Reports** from the **Import/Export** accordion.

3.  In the **Export** area, select the reports to export.

4.  Click **Export**.

## Managing Report Menus

By default, all account roles have the same reports available. If you
have the super administrator or administrator role, you can customize
the accordions, the folders within them, and the locations of your
reports.

<div class="note">

When you create your own report, the report is not automatically
available. You must add it to a report menu.

</div>

The report menu is a hierarchical structure that consists of the
following components:

  - The top level, under which the accordions are shown. (Top level is
    only displayed when you are in the report menu editor.)

  - Accordions that are general categories for the reports. The defaults
    supplied are **Configuration Management**, **Migration Readiness**,
    **Operations**, **VM Sprawl**, **Relationships**, **Events**,
    **Performance by Asset Type**, **Trending**, **Tenants**,
    **Provisioning**, and **Running Processes**.

  - Folders that are used to further organize reports within an
    accordion. For example, under the **Configuration Management**,
    there are folders for virtual machines, hosts, and other virtual
    infrastructure components.

  - Reports that are stored directly in the folders.

### Managing Report Menu Accordions

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Overview \> Reports</span>.

2.  Click the **Edit Report Menus** folder.

3.  Click the role whose menus you want to customize.

4.  Click on **Top Level** to organize, add, and delete folders.
    
      - Click ![moveToTop](images/moveToTop.png) **(Move selected folder
        to top)** to move the folder to the top of the list.
    
      - Click ![moveUp](images/moveUp.png) **(Move selected folder up)**
        to move the folder up.
    
      - Click ![moveDown](images/moveDown.png) **(Move selected folder
        down)** to move the folder down.
    
      - Click ![moveToBottom](images/moveToBottom.png) **(Move selected
        folder to bottom)** to move the folder to the bottom of the
        list.
    
      - Click ![delete](images/delete.png) **(Delete selected folder and
        its contents)** to delete a folder.
    
      - Click ![add](images/add.png) **(Add folder to selected folder)**
        to add an folder.
        
        <div class="note">
        
        If you are creating a new folder, **Top Level** must be selected
        under **Reports**. Be sure to select the folder you want to
        create a subfolder for on the left pane. To name the folder,
        double-click on **New Folder**, then click on **Top Level** in
        the **Reports** area.
        
        </div>

5.  When you are finished adding folders, click **Commit**. To revert,
    click **Discard**.

6.  Click **Save**.

The new folder is added, and you can add folders in which to store
reports to it. You can also organize the reports into folder that are
meaningful to you.

### Managing Report Menu Folders

1.  Log in to the console as a user who is assigned either the super
    administrator or administrator account role.

2.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Overview \> Reports</span>.

3.  Click the **Edit Report Menus** accordion.

4.  Click the role whose menus you want to customize.

5.  Click on the accordion name you want to organize or add folders to.
    
      - Click ![moveToTop](images/moveToTop.png) **(Move selected folder
        to top)** to move the folder to the top of the list.
    
      - Click ![moveUp](images/moveUp.png) **(Move selected folder up)**
        to move the folder up.
    
      - Click ![moveDown](images/moveDown.png) **(Move selected folder
        down)** to move the folder down.
    
      - Click ![moveToBottom](images/moveToBottom.png) **(Move selected
        folder to bottom)** to move the folder to the bottom of the
        list.
    
      - Click ![delete](images/delete.png) **(Delete selected folder and
        its contents)** to delete an folder.
    
      - Click ![add](images/add.png) **(Add subfolder to selected
        folder)** to add a folder. When creating a subfolder, be sure to
        select the folder that you want the subfolder to show under. To
        name the folder, double-click on `New Folder`.

6.  When you are finished making changes click **Commit**. To revert,
    click **Discard**.

7.  Click **Save**.

<div class="note">

Only reports that are not already in another folder can be assigned.

</div>

### Organizing Reports in Report Menus

1.  Log in to the console as a user who is assigned either the Super
    Administrator or Administrator Account Role.

2.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Overview \> Reports</span>.

3.  Click the **Edit Report Menus** accordion.

4.  Click the role whose menus you want to customize.

5.  Expand the **Report** accordion and menus using the triangles to the
    left of the item name until you are able to select the subfolder
    where you want to put reports.

6.  Choose one of the following actions:
    
      - To add a report, select a report from the **Available Reports**
        area on the right and click ![moveLeft](images/moveLeft.png)
        **(Move selected reports left)**.
    
      - To remove a report from a folder, select the report from the
        **Selected Reports** area and click
        ![moveRIght](images/moveRIght.png) **(Move selected reports
        right)**.
    
      - To move a report to the top of the folder, select the report and
        click ![moveToTop](images/moveToTop.png) **(Move selected
        reports to top)**.
    
      - To move a report up one place in the folder, select the report
        and click ![moveUp](images/moveUp.png) **(Move selected reports
        up)**.
    
      - To move a report down one place in the folder, select the report
        and click ![moveDown](images/moveDown.png) **(Move selected
        reports down)**.
    
      - To move a report to the bottom of the folder, select the report
        and click ![moveToBottom](images/moveToBottom.png) **(Move
        selected reports to bottom)**.

7.  When you are finished making changes click **Commit**.

8.  Click **Save**.

The changes are made. The next time a user with this Account Role logs
in, the new report and menu structure will be displayed.

# Chargeback

The chargeback feature allows you to calculate monetary virtual machine
charges based on owner or company tag. To use this feature you must be
collecting capacity and utilization data.

For information on server control setting and capacity & utilization
collection settings, see General Configuration.

## Chargeback Rates

ManageIQ provides a default set of rates for calculating chargeback
costs, but you can create your own set of computing and storage costs by
navigating to <span class="menuchoice">Overview \> Chargeback</span> and
clicking the **Rates** accordion.

You can configure chargeback rates for various resources by selecting
either **Compute** or **Storage** in the **Rates** accordion.
**Compute** sets chargeback rates for CPU, disk I/O, fixed compute cost,
memory, and network I/O items, while **Storage** sets chargeback rates
for fixed storage cost and disk storage.

Chargeback costs are computed using a set formula based on hourly cost
per unit and hourly usage.

Chargeback can be calculated in the following currencies:

  - Australian dollar (AUD)

  - Brazilian real (BRL)

  - Swiss franc (CHF)

  - Chinese yuan renminbi (CNY)

  - Euro (EUR)

  - Pound sterling (GBP)

  - Indian rupee (INR)

  - Japanese yen (JPY)

  - South Korean won (KRW)

  - Mexican peso (MXN)

  - Norwegian krone (NOK)

  - Russian ruble (RUB)

  - Swedish krona (SEK)

  - Turkish lira (TRY)

  - United States dollar (USD)

  - South African rand (ZAR)

Chargeback rates can be assigned at a single rate or by tiers, where
rates are assigned in ranges depending on level of usage.

Additionally, chargeback can be calculated at one fixed rate, or by a
combination of fixed and variable rates per tier. Fixed rates are
charged once per unit of time, and the variable rate is calculated by
the level of usage multiplied by the number of resources used in a unit
of time.

### Memory Used Cost

Calculating the Memory Used Cost in dollars ($) for a day can be
expressed in the following ways:

  - Memory allocation per hour (in MB) \* Hourly Allocation cost per
    megabyte \* Number of Memory Allocation metrics available for the
    day

  - Sum of Memory allocation for the day (in MB) \* Hourly Allocation
    cost per megabyte

  - Sum of Memory allocation for the day (in MB) \* Daily Allocation
    cost per megabyte / 24

Memory costs can be measured in B, KB, MB, GB, or TB.

In a scenario where 9.29 GB of memory is used in a day with the
chargeback rate set at one dollar ($1) per megabyte per day, the Memory
Used Cost would be $396.42.

  - 9.29 GB = 9514.08 MB

  - 9514.08 MB \* $1 (per MB per day) = $9514.08

  - $9514.08 / 24 = $396.42 Memory Used Cost

### CPU Total Cost

The CPU Total Cost is defined as the number of virtual CPUs over the
selected interval (hour, day, week, month). CPU costs can be measured in
units of Hz, KHz, MHz, GHz, or THz, as specified when creating a
chargeback rate.

In a scenario where 16 CPUs are used in a day with the chargeback rate
set at one dollar per CPU per day, the CPU Total Cost would be $16.

  - 16 CPUs \* $1 (per CPU per day) = $16 CPU Total Cost

### CPU Used Cost

The CPU Used Cost is defined as the average CPU used in MHz over the
selected rate interval (hour, day, week, month). CPU Used Cost is not
supported for containers providers.

In a scenario where 2.5 GHz is used in a day with the chargeback rate
set at $0.01 per MHz per day, the CPU Used Cost would be $25.

  - 2.5 GHz = 2500 MHz

  - 2500 MHz \* $0.01 (per MHz per day) = $25 CPU Used Cost

### Storage Allocated Cost

The Storage Allocated Cost is defined as the Allocated Disk Storage in
bytes over the selected rate interval (hour, day, week, month). Storage
costs can be measured in B, KB, MB, GB, or TB.

In a scenario where 500 GB are used in a day with the chargeback rate
set at $0.10 per GB per day, the Storage Allocated Cost would be $50.

  - 536,870,912,000 bytes = 500 GB

  - 500 GB \* $0.10 (per GB per day) = $50 Storage Allocated Cost

### Storage Total Cost

The Storage Total Cost is defined as the Used Disk Storage in bytes over
the selected rate interval (hour, day, week, month).

In a scenario where 250 GB are used in a day with the chargeback rate
set at $0.10 per GB per day, the Storage Total Cost would be $25.

  - 268,435,456,000 bytes = 250 GB

  - 250 GB \* $0.10 (per GB per day) = $25 Storage Total Cost

### Storage Used Cost

The Storage Used Cost is defined as the Used Disk Storage in bytes over
the selected rate interval (hour, day, week, month).

In a scenario where 250 GB are used in a day with the chargeback rate
set at $0.10 per GB per day, the Storage Used Cost would be $25.

  - 268,435,456,000 bytes = 250 GB

  - 250 GB \* $0.10 (per GB per day) = $25 Storage Used Cost

<div class="note">

The following chargeback rates are not supported for containers
providers:

  - Allocated CPU count

  - Used CPU

  - Used disk I/O

  - Allocated memory

</div>

## Creating Chargeback Rates

ManageIQ allows you to create your own set of computing and storage
costs to use for billing.

Chargeback rates can be configured at a single rate or in tiers, where
one rate is assigned to one usage range, and another rate is assigned to
a different usage range. You can also assign fixed and variable rates
per tier if desired.

There are three methods to create a chargeback rate: editing or copying
an existing rate, or creating a new rate.

### Editing a Chargeback Rate

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Overview \> Chargeback</span>.

2.  Click the **Rates** accordion and select an existing rate from under
    **Compute** or **Storage**.

3.  Click ![1847](images/1847.png) **(Configuration)** and
    ![1851](images/1851.png) **(Edit this Chargeback Rate)**.

4.  Edit the rate as desired.

5.  Click **Save** at the bottom of the screen to save the chargeback
    rate.

### Copying a Chargeback Rate

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Overview \> Chargeback</span>.

2.  Click the **Rates** accordion and select an existing rate from under
    **Compute** or **Storage**.

3.  Click ![1847](images/1847.png) **(Configuration)** and
    ![1859](images/1859.png) **(Copy this Chargeback Rate)**.

4.  Edit the rate as desired.

5.  Click **Add** at the bottom of the screen to save the chargeback
    rate.

### Adding a Chargeback Rate

The following example shows a scenario to create a new chargeback rate
for allocated CPU usage in Euro per week measured by the following
tiers, calculating both fixed and variable costs:

  - Tier 1: 0-2 CPU = 1 Euro fixed + 0.5 Euro variable

  - Tier 2: 2-4 CPU = 0.8 Euro fixed + 0.4 Euro variable

  - Tier 3: 4 CPU and above = 0.6 Euro fixed + 0.2 Euro variable

To configure this rate:

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Overview \> Chargeback</span>.

2.  Click the **Rates** accordion and select **Compute** to create a CPU
    chargeback rate.
    
    1.  Click ![1847](images/1847.png) **(Configuration)** and
        ![1862](images/1862.png) **(Add a new Chargeback Rate)**.

3.  Type in a **Description** for the chargeback rate.

4.  Select **Euro** for currency.

5.  In **Rate Details**, select the time, and fill in the range and
    rates for each tier. Alternatively, a single chargeback rate can be
    configured by using only one tier. For this example, in **Allocated
    CPU Count**, configure:
    
    1.  For tier 1, set:
        
        1.  In **Per Time**, select **Hourly**.
        
        2.  In **Range**, specify the CPU range: **Start** remains as
            `0.0` and **Finish** is `2`.
        
        3.  In **Rate**, specify `1` for the **Fixed** rate, and `0.5`
            for the **Variable** rate.
        
        4.  Click **Add** under **Actions** to create a new, blank
            **Allocated CPU Count** line for tier 2.
    
    2.  For tier 2, set:
        
        1.  In the new line in **Range**, specify the CPU range:
            **Start** is `2` and **Finish** is `4`.
        
        2.  In **Rate**, specify `0.8` for the **Fixed** rate, and `0.4`
            for the **Variable** rate.
        
        3.  Click **Add** under **Actions** to create another new, blank
            **Allocated CPU Count** line for tier 3.
    
    3.  For tier 3, set:
        
        1.  In the new line in **Range**, specify the CPU range:
            **Start** is `4` and leave **Finish** as `Infinity`.
        
        2.  In **Rate**, specify `0.6` for the **Fixed** rate, and `0.2`
            for **Variable**.
            
            ![Tiered Chargeback](images/Tiered_Chargeback.png)

6.  Click **Add** at the bottom of the screen to save the chargeback
    rate.

The rate can now be assigned.

## Assigning Chargeback Rates

ManageIQ allows you to assign chargeback rates by choosing from
**Compute** and **Storage**. You can assign either a custom chargeback
rate, or a default rate for Compute, Storage, or Container Images.

<div class="note">

The **Default Container Image Rate** can be useful when applied to a
containers provider with multiple images, where only some of the images
have a chargeback rate assigned; the images without a custom rate will
then use the default rate.

</div>

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Overview \> Chargeback</span>.

2.  Click the **Assignments** accordion, and click either **Compute** or
    **Storage**.

### Configuring Chargeback for Compute

Use **Compute** to assign a compute chargeback rate. You can assign
chargeback rates to **The Enterprise**, **Selected Cloud/Infrastructure
Providers**, **Selected Clusters/Deployment Roles**, **Selected
Containers Providers**, **Tagged VMs and Instances**, **Tagged Images**,
**Labeled Images**, or **Tenants**.

1.  From the **Basic Info** area, use the **Assign To** list to select a
    type of assignee to assign the rate set to.

2.  For **Tagged VMs and Instances** and **Tagged Images** select a
    **Tag Category**.

3.  For each item to set, select the chargeback rate to use. The options
    displayed vary based on the type you select.

4.  Click **Save**.

### Configuring Chargeback for Storage

Use **Storage** to assign a storage chargeback rate. You can assign
chargeback rates to **The Enterprise**, **Selected Datastores**,
**Tagged Datastores**, or **Tenants**.

1.  From the **Basic Info** area, use the **Assign To** list to select a
    type of assignee to assign the rate set to.

2.  For **Tagged Datastores** select a **Tag Category**.

3.  For each item to set, select the chargeback rate to use. The options
    displayed vary based on the type you select.

4.  Click **Save**.

The rate is assigned. The next time you generate a chargeback report,
these values will be used.

<div class="note">

When viewing chargeback, there is a rate for a virtual machine for the
number of the CPUs. The chargeback for this parameter is calculated
based on when the virtual machine is running. If the virtual machine is
not running, then it is not charged for CPU allocation.

</div>

## Creating a Chargeback Report

ManageIQ allows you to create chargeback reports to monitor costs you
charged.

<div class="note">

When creating a chargeback report, the **Total Cost** is the complete
cost for the chosen workload over the selected time frame. Total costs
are calculated by adding the calculated costs for the amount used and
the amount allocated for the time frame. When adding cost related
columns to display on your report, be sure to select all rate assigned
fields to present a comprehensive accounting of total costs.

</div>

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Overview \> Reports</span>.

2.  Click the **Reports** accordion.

3.  Click ![1847](images/1847.png)**(Configuration)**,
    ![1862](images/1862.png) **(Add a new Report)**.

4.  On the **Columns** tab, fill out the **Basic Report Info** area.
    
      - Type a unique name in **Menu Name** for how you want the report
        described in the menu list.
    
      - Type the **Title** to display on the report.

5.  Add fields in the **Configure Report Columns** area.
    
      - From the **Base the report on** list, select **Chargebacks**.
    
      - Select the fields to include in the report from the **Available
        Fields** list, then click ![2289](images/2289.png) **(Move
        selected fields down)**. In addition to the fields, you can also
        select any tags that you have created and assigned.
    
      - Change the order of the fields in the report by clicking
        ![2290](images/2290.png) **(Move selected fields up)** or
        ![2289](images/2289.png) **(Move selected fields down)\]**.

6.  Click the **Formatting** tab to set the size of paper for a PDF and
    column header format.
    
      - From the **PDF Output** area, select the page size from the
        **Page Size** list.
    
      - From **Specify Column Headers and Formats**, type the text to
        display for each field. For each numeric field, you can also set
        the numeric format.

7.  Click the **Filter** tab to set filters for the data displayed in
    the report.
    
      - From **Chargeback Filters**, select how you want the costs to
        show, the tag category, the tag, and how you want the items
        grouped.
    
      - From **Chargeback Interval**, select the time interval. You must
        have a full interval worth of data in order to select an option
        other than **Partial** in the **Daily Ending With** list.

8.  Click the **Preview** tab, and then **Load** to see what the report
    will look like.

9.  When you are satisfied that you have the report that you want, click
    **Add** to create the new report.

The new report is created. To make the report accessible from the
**Report** menu, you must add it to a report menu.

# Alerts

## Assigning the Notifier Role

1.  Click ![config gear](images/config-gear.png) (**Configuration**).

2.  Click the **Settings** accordion, and select the ManageIQ server.

3.  From the **Server Control** tab, select the **Notifier** role.
    
    ![6255](images/6255.png)

4.  Click **Save**.

## Creating an Alert

This section outlines the basic procedure to create an alert.

<div class="note">

To send emails or SNMP traps from the ManageIQ server, you must enable
the Notifier server role and set up SMTP email or SNMP traps. For more
information, see *General Configuration*.

</div>

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Control \> Explorer</span>.

2.  Click the **Alerts** accordion, then click ![1847](images/1847.png)
    (**Configuration**), ![1862](images/1862.png) (**Add a New Alert**).

3.  Enter the basic details of the alert:
    
    1.  Enter a description in the **Description** field.
    
    2.  Select the **Active** check box to enable the alert after
        creation.
    
    3.  Select the severity level from the **Severity** list.
    
    4.  Select the inventory item on which to base the alert from the
        **Based On** list.
    
    5.  Select the type of event that triggers the alert from the **What
        to Evaluate** list.
    
    6.  Select the frequency with which to be notified if the event log
        threshold is reached from the **Notification Frequency** list.

4.  Configure the parameters of the alert.
    
    <div class="note">
    
    The available parameters depend on the options you selected in the
    **Based On** and **What to Evaluate** lists. See later sections for
    the details of these parameters.
    
    </div>

5.  Optionally, select **Send an E-mail** to configure options so that
    an email is sent when the alert is triggered:
    
    1.  Enter the email address from which to send the email in the
        **From** field.
    
    2.  Select a user from the **Add a User** list to add a user
        registered in ManageIQ. The user must have a valid email address
        entered under accounts.
    
    3.  Enter the email address of a user in the **Add (enter
        manually)** field and click ![2261](images/2261.png) to add a
        user not registered in ManageIQ.

6.  Optionally, select **Send an SNMP Trap** to configure options so
    that an SNMP trap is sent when the alert is triggered:
    
    1.  Enter the IP addresses of the hosts to send the trap in the
        **Host** fields.
    
    2.  Select the version of SNMP to use from the **Version** list:
        
        1.  If you select **v1**, enter a trap number in the **Trap
            Number** field. Enter **1**, **2**, or **3**, based on the
            appropriate suffix number in
            [table\_title](#snmp-trap-identifiers).
        
        2.  If you select **v2**, enter a trap object ID in the **Trap
            Object ID** field. Enter **info**, **warning**, or
            **critical** based on the values in
            [table\_title](#snmp-trap-identifiers).
            
            | Object ID             | Suffix Number Added to PEN | PEN with the Suffix Added |
            | --------------------- | -------------------------- | ------------------------- |
            | info                  | 1                          | 1.3.6.1.4.1.33482.1       |
            | warn, warning         | 2                          | 1.3.6.1.4.1.33482.2       |
            | crit, critical, error | 3                          | 1.3.6.1.4.1.33482.3       |
            

            SNMP Trap Identifiers

7.  Optionally, select **Send a Management Event** to trigger an
    automation event:
    
    1.  Enter the name of the event that exists in the **Process/Event
        Class** in the **Event Name** field.

8.  Click **Add**.

## Creating a Hardware Reconfigured Alert

Use a hardware reconfigure alert to detect changes to the amount of
memory or the number of CPUs on a virtual machine.

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Control \> Explorer</span>.

2.  Click the **Alerts** accordion, then click ![1847](images/1847.png)
    (**Configuration**), ![1862](images/1862.png) (**Add a new Alert**).

3.  In the **Info** area:
    
      - Type in a description for the alert.
    
      - From **Based On**, select **VM and Instance**.
    
      - From **What to Evaluate**, select **Hardware Reconfigured**.
    
      - In **Notification Frequency**, select how often you want to be
        notified if hardware reconfiguration is detected.

4.  From **Hardware Attribute**, select Number of CPUs. From the next
    dropdown, select **Decreased**.
    
    ![1973](images/1973.png)

5.  After setting the parameters, select what you want the alert to do.
    You can send an email, create an SNMP Trap, or send a management
    event to start an automation process.

6.  Click **Add**.

## Creating a Normal Operating Range Alert

Normal operating range alerts enables you to be notified when the normal
operating range is exceeded, or falls below for a period of time from 1
minute to 2 hours. Capacity and utilization must be enabled for normal
operating ranges to be calculated. See *General Configuration* for more
information.

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Control \> Explorer</span>.

2.  Click the **Alerts** accordion, then click ![1847](images/1847.png)
    (**Configuration**), ![1862](images/1862.png) (**Add a new Alert**).

3.  In the **Info** area:
    
      - Type in a **Description** for the alert.
    
      - From **Based On**, select **VM and Instance**.
    
      - For **What to Evaluate**, select **Normal Operating Range**.
    
      - In **Notification Frequency**, select how often you want to be
        notified if the performance threshold is reached.

4.  Set the threshold in the **Normal Operating Range Parameters** area.
    
    ![1976](images/1976.png)
    
      - From **Performance Field**, select the field to check and
        whether you want to be notified if the field is exceeded or fell
        below.
    
      - In **Field Meets Criteria for**, select the amount of time that
        the threshold requires to be met to trigger the alert.

5.  After setting the parameters, you then select what you want the
    alert to do. You can send an email, create an SNMP Trap, or send a
    management event to start an automation process. See [Creating an
    Alert](#_to_create_an_alert).

6.  Click **Add**.

## Creating a Real Time Performance Alert

Real Time Performance alerts enables you to be notified immediately when
a performance threshold has been met for a virtual machine, host, or
cluster. Capacity and Utilization must be enabled for performance
thresholds to be detected. See General Configuration for more
information.

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Control \> Explorer</span>.

2.  Click the **Alert** accordion, then click ![1847](images/1847.png)
    (**Configuration**), ![1862](images/1862.png) (**Add a new Alert**).

3.  In the **Info** area:
    
      - Type in a **Description** for the alert.
    
      - From **Based On**, select **VM and Instance**.
    
      - For **What to Evaluate**, select **Real Time Performance**.
    
      - In **Notification Frequency**, select how often you want to be
        notified if the performance threshold is reached.

4.  Set the threshold in the **Real Time Performance Parameters** area.
    
    ![1978](images/1978.png)
    
      - From **Performance Field**, select the field to check and any
        other parameters required for that field.
    
      - In **And is Trending**, select **Don’t Care** if it does not
        matter how the performance metric is trending. Otherwise, choose
        from the possible trending options.
    
      - In **Field Meets Criteria for**, select the amount of time that
        the threshold requires to be met to trigger the alert.
    
      - Set **Debug Tracing** to true only when directed to do so by Red
        Hat Support. This provides an extremely detailed level of
        logging and can result in many more log lines being written.

5.  After setting the parameters, you then select what you want the
    alert to do. You can send an email, create an SNMP Trap, or send a
    management event to start an automation process.

6.  Click **Add**.

## Creating an Hourly Performance Alert

Hourly performance alerts enable you to be notified immediately when an
hourly performance threshold has been met for a cluster. Capacity and
Utilization must be enabled for performance thresholds to be detected.
See General Configuration for instructions.

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Control \> Explorer</span>.

2.  Click the **Alerts** accordion.

3.  Click ![1847](images/1847.png) (**Configuration**),
    ![1862](images/1862.png) (**Add a new Alert**).

4.  In the **Info** area:
    
    ![1979](images/1979.png)
    
      - Type in a **Description** for the alert.
    
      - From **Based On**, select **Cluster**.
    
      - For **What to Evaluate**, select **Hourly Performance**.
    
      - In **Notification Frequency**, select how often you want to be
        notified if threshold is met.

5.  In the **Hourly Performance Parameters** area select performance
    field and the criteria. You can also select options from the **And
    is Trending** dropdown box and whether the **Debug Tracing** is true
    or false.

6.  After setting the parameters, you then select what you want the
    alert to do. You can send an email, create an SNMP Trap, or send a
    management event to start an automation process.

7.  Click **Add**.

## Creating a hostd Log Threshold Alert

Use the **hostd Log Threshold** to send a notification when certain
items are found in the event logs for a host. A default analysis profile
with event log items is required for this feature. The following example
shows steps to check the host’s log for a failure to validate a virtual
machine’s IP address.

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Control \> Explorer</span>.

2.  Click the **Alert** accordion.

3.  Click ![1847](images/1847.png) (**Configuration**),
    ![1862](images/1862.png) (**Add a new Alert**).

4.  In the **Info** area:
    
    ![hostdLogAlert](images/hostdLogAlert.png)
    
      - Type in a **Description** for the alert.
    
      - From **Based On**, select **Host/Node**.
    
      - For **What to Evaluate**, select **Hostd Log Threshold**.
    
      - In **Notification Frequency**, select how often you want to be
        notified if the log item is detected.

5.  In the **Hostd Log Threshold Parameters** area, select the
    parameters for the event log message. You can set a threshold for a
    filter, level, or message source.
    
      - Use **Message Filter** to look for specific text in a message.
        Use **Message Level** to filter based on message level. ManageIQ
        reports on the specified level and above. Use **Message Source**
        to filter log messages based on its source.
    
      - Set **How Far Back to Check** in days you want to look for this
        message.
    
      - If you only want an alert triggered when the log message has
        occurred a certain number of times, type the number in **Event
        Count Threshold**.

6.  After setting the parameters, select what you want the alert to do.
    You can send an email, create an SNMP Trap, or send a management
    event to start an automation process.

7.  Click **Add**.

## Creating a VMware Alarm Alert

ManageIQ can use VMware alarms as a trigger for an alert. This type of
alert can be created for a cluster, host, or virtual machine.

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Control \> Explorer</span>.

2.  Click the **Alerts** accordion, then click ![1847](images/1847.png)
    (**Configuration**), ![1862](images/1862.png) (**Add a new Alert**).

3.  In the **Info** area:
    
      - Type in a description for the alert.
    
      - From **Based On**, select **Cluster**, **Host**, or **VM**.
    
      - For **What to Evaluate**, select **VMware Alarm**.
    
      - In **Notification Frequency**, select how often you want to be
        notified if the log item is detected.

4.  In the **VMware Alarm Parameters** area select the provider and
    alarm.
    
    ![1984](images/1984.png)

5.  After setting the parameters, you then select what you want the
    alert to do. You can send an email, create an SNMP Trap, or send a
    management event to start an automation process.

6.  Click **Add**.

## Creating an Expression Alert

Expression alerts enables you to create a notification based on any
possible criteria for clusters, datastores, hosts, and virtual machines.
The following procedure creates an alert for when a host’s datastore has
less than 5% free space.

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Control \> Explorer</span>.

2.  Click on the **Alerts** accordion, then click
    ![1847](images/1847.png) (**Configuration**),
    ![1862](images/1862.png) (**Add a new Alert**).

3.  In the **Info** area:
    
    ![expressionAlerts](images/expressionAlerts.png)
    
      - Type in a description for the alert.
    
      - From **Based On**, select **Host/Node**.
    
      - For **What to Evaluate**, select **Expression (Custom)**.
    
      - In **Notification Frequency**, select how often you want to be
        notified if the expression is evaluated to true.

4.  Use the expression editor to create your expression. This is the
    same expression editor used to create **Conditions**. For details on
    how to use the expression editor, see the Policies and Profiles
    Guide.
    
    ![expressionEditor](images/expressionEditor.png)

5.  Click ![1863](images/1863.png) (**Commit expression element
    changes**) to accept the expression.

6.  After setting the parameters, you then select what you want the
    alert to do. You can send an email, create an SNMP Trap, or send a
    management event to start an automation process.

7.  Click **Add**.

## Create an Operational Alert

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Control \> Explorer</span>.

2.  Click on the **Alerts** accordion, then click
    ![1847](images/1847.png) (**Configuration**),
    ![1862](images/1862.png) (**Add a new Alert**).

3.  In the **Info** area:
    
      - Type in a description for the alert.
    
      - Check **Active** when you feel that the alert is ready to be
        enabled.
    
      - From **Based On**, select **Server**.
    
      - Select the appropriate driving event.
    
      - In **Notification Frequency**, select how often you want to be
        notified if the event log threshold is reached.

4.  After setting the parameters, select what you want the alert to do.
    You can send an email, create an SNMP Trap, or send a management
    event to start an automation process.

5.  Click **Add**.

## Operational Alert Types

<table>
<caption>Operational Alerts</caption>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 33%" />
<col style="width: 33%" />
<col style="width: 33%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>Driving Event</th>
<th>Explanation (Thresholds, Description)</th>
<th>Proposed Action and Next Steps</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>EVM Server Start</p></td>
<td><p>Alert is raised when an server starts.</p></td>
<td><p>Send e-email. This is a notification.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>EVM Server Stop</p></td>
<td><p>Alert is raised when a server stops.</p></td>
<td><p>Send e-mail. Review logs to see why the server stopped.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>EVM Server Not Responding</p></td>
<td><p>Alert is raised when one server detects that another server has not responded in 2 minutes.</p></td>
<td><p>This is a sign of a problem that should be investigated. Check logs.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>EVM Server Exceeded Memory Limit</p></td>
<td><p>Alert is raised when an server has exceeded its system memory limit and begins killing workers. Default is 80%.</p>
<p>Threshold configured in Advanced Settings.</p>
<p>server:</p>
<p>:worker_monitor:</p>
<p>:kill_algorithm:</p>
<p>:name: :used_swap_percent_gt_value</p>
<p>:value: 80</p></td>
<td><p>This may be caused by the following issues:</p>
<p>The server is running with too few resources.</p>
<p>The server is enabled with too many roles or number of workers.</p>
<p>The server picked up all the roles because another server has failed.</p>
<p>A runaway process has taken up most of the memory.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>EVM Server is Master</p></td>
<td><p>When one server takes over as a master server.</p></td>
<td><p>Typically, this should only occur when first starting a set of servers, perhaps following expected outages. If a server picks up as master in other situations, the old master had an issue that needs to be researched (such as server not responding in time).</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>EVM Server High System Disk Usage</p></td>
<td><p>The server’s system disk is 80% full. This check is run as part of a system schedule.</p>
<p>Threshold configured in Advanced Settings.</p>
<p>server:</p>
<p>events:</p>
<p>:disk_usage_gt_percent: 80</p></td>
<td><p>Temp files used by the operating system may be filling the disk. Yum updates, normal /tmp files, or temp files in /var/lib/data/miqtemp/ may cause the problem.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>EVM Server High App Disk Usage</p></td>
<td><p>The server’s app disk is 80% full. This check is run as part of a system schedule.</p>
<p>Threshold configured in Advanced Settings.</p>
<p>server:</p>
<p>events:</p>
<p>:disk_usage_gt_percent: 80</p></td>
<td><p>Server temp files may remain.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>EVM Server High Log Disk Usage</p></td>
<td><p>The server’s log disk is 80% full. This check is run as part of a system schedule.</p>
<p>Threshold configured in Advanced Settings.</p>
<p>server:</p>
<p>events:</p>
<p>:disk_usage_gt_percent: 80</p></td>
<td><p>Logs are getting too big or are not being log rotated properly every day. Review the most recent logs.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>EVM Server High DB Disk Usage</p></td>
<td><p>The server’s db disk is 80% full. This check is run as part of a system schedule. Applies if using PostgreSQL as the VDMB.</p>
<p>Threshold configured in Advanced Settings.</p>
<p>server:</p>
<p>events:</p>
<p>:disk_usage_gt_percent: 80</p></td>
<td><p>Database or database logging is getting too large. May require <strong>full</strong> vacuuming of PostgreSQL database.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>EVM Worker Started</p></td>
<td><p>Alert is raised when a worker is about to start.</p></td>
<td><p>This is a notification. Failover may trigger this alert.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>EVM Worker Stopped</p></td>
<td><p>Alert is raised when a worker is requested to stop.</p></td>
<td><p>Review logs for reason in the event the worker was not purposefully stopped.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>EVM Worker Killed</p></td>
<td><p>Alert is raised when a non- responsive worker does not restart on its own and is killed.</p></td>
<td><p>Review logs for reason the worker was killed. May be the result of EVM Worker Not Responding.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>EVM Worker Not Responding</p></td>
<td><p>Alert is raised when a worker has not responded for 2 minutes (:heartbeat_timeout) or has not started within 10 minutes (:starting_timeout).</p></td>
<td><p>An influx of events from the Virtual Center or Red Hat Virtualization causes an inability of EVM/CFME to handle the capacity at which they are being queued. Utilize the Event Handler Configuration to filter events that are causing problematic queue table growth.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>EVM Worker Exceeded Memory Limit</p></td>
<td><p>Alert is raised when a worker exceeds the memory threshold. The default is 150 MB, but some workers have their own value in the :memory_threshold section for that specific worker.</p></td>
<td><p>Review logs for reason the worker is exceeding the memory limit. This may be the result of an overload to the worker process that requires further investigation.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>EVM Worker Exceeded Uptime Limit</p></td>
<td><p>Alert is raised when a worker has been running longer than the :restart_interval. (Most workers are set to never restart using the 0.hours setting.) The EMS Refresh SmartProxy workers are set to restart every 2 hours.</p></td>
<td><p>Review logs for the reason the worker is exceeding the limit. This may be the result of an overload to the worker process that needs further investigation.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>EVM Worker Exit File</p></td>
<td><p>Alert is raised when the scheduler worker exits due to a pending large ntp time change.</p></td>
<td><p>This is a notification.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Editing an Alert

After creating an alert, you can edit the threshold, expression, or the
notification type.

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Control \> Explorer</span>.

2.  Click on the **Alerts** accordion, then click on the alert that you
    need to edit.

3.  Click ![1847](images/1847.png) **(Configuration)**,
    ![1851](images/1851.png) **(Edit this Alert)**.

4.  Make the required changes.

5.  Click **Save**.

## Copying an Alert

You can copy an existing alert to create a new alert that is similar to
the existing one, then change the values associated with it.

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Control \> Explorer</span>.

2.  Click on the **Alert** accordion, then click on the alert that you
    want to copy.

3.  Click ![1847](images/1847.png) (**Configuration**),
    ![1859](images/1859.png) (**Copy this Alert**). Click **OK** to
    confirm.

4.  Make the required changes.

5.  Click **Add**.

## Deleting an Alert

When an alert is no longer needed, you can remove it from your VMDB.

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Control \> Explorer</span>.

2.  Click on the **Alerts** accordion, then click on the alert that you
    want to delete.

3.  Click ![1847](images/1847.png) (**Configuration**),
    ![1861](images/1861.png) (**Delete this Alert**).

4.  Click **OK** to confirm.

## Evaluating an Alert

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Control \> Explorer</span>.

2.  Click the **Actions** accordion, then click ![1847](images/1847.png)
    (**Configuration**), ![1862](images/1862.png) (**Add a new
    Action**).

3.  Type in a **Description** for the action.
    
    ![1911](images/1911.png)

4.  Select **Evaluate Alerts** from **Action Type**.

5.  Select the alerts to be evaluated and click ![1876](images/1876.png)
    (**Move selected Alerts into this Action**). Use the `Ctrl` key to
    select multiple alerts.
    
    ![1912](images/1912.png)

6.  Click **Add**.

# Alert Profiles

## Creating Alert Profiles

Alert profiles enable you to create groups of standard alerts. An alert
profile can have as many alerts assigned as you need, and can be
assigned to clusters, datastores, hosts, and virtual machines.

<div class="note">

Each profile type under the **Alert Profile** accordion menu will have
its own **Alert Selections** and subsequent **Assignments** choices.

</div>

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Control \> Explorer</span>.

2.  Click on the **Alert Profiles** accordion, then click on the type of
    profile that you want to create.

3.  Click ![1847](images/1847.png) (**Configuration**),
    ![1862](images/1862.png) (**Add a new Profile**).

4.  In the **Basic Information** box, type in a unique **Description**
    for the alert profile.

5.  Select the desired alerts from the **Alert Selection** area. Use the
    `Ctrl` key to select multiple alerts.

6.  Click ![1876](images/1876.png) to add the Alerts.

7.  Type in any additional description in the **Notes** area.

8.  Click **Add**.

## Editing an Alert Profile

You can edit an alert profile as your enterprise’s needs change.

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Control \> Explorer</span>.

2.  Click on the **Alert Profiles** accordion, then click the alert
    profile you want to edit.

3.  Click ![1847](images/1847.png) (**Configuration**),
    ![1851](images/1851.png) (**Edit this Alert Profile**).

4.  Make the required changes.

5.  Click **Save**.

## Deleting an Alert Profile

Remove alert profiles that you no longer need. This does not remove the
alerts associated with the alert profile.

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Control \> Explorer</span>.

2.  Click on the **Alert Profiles** accordion, then click the alert
    profile you want to remove.

3.  Click ![1847](images/1847.png) (**Configuration**),
    ![1861](images/1861.png) (**Delete this Alert Profile**).

4.  Click **OK** to confirm.

## Assigning an Alert Profile

After an alert profile is created and verified, you can assign it
directly to a resource.

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Control \> Explorer</span>.

2.  Click on the **Alert Profiles** accordion, then click on the alert
    profile that you want to assign.

3.  Click ![1847](images/1847.png) (**Configuration**),
    ![1851](images/1851.png) (**Edit Assignments for this Alert
    Profile**).

4.  The options presented change based on if the alert is for a cluster,
    datastore, ManageIQ server, host, or virtual machine and instance.
    You can assign to the enterprise, to specific hosts, cluster,
    resource pools, and providers, or based on assign tags. For a
    ManageIQ server alert profile, you can only assign to ManageIQ
    servers in the current Region.

5.  Click **Save**.

# Importing and Exporting

## Importing and Exporting Policies, Policy Profiles, and Alerts

If you have multiple VMDBs, you can export policies, policy profiles, or
alerts from one to another. You can export and import for use with other
ManageIQ infrastructures.

<div class="note">

The appliances you are exporting or importing data between must use the
same ManageIQ version.

</div>

1.  Copy the file to import to a location that is accessible to your
    ManageIQ console.

2.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Control \>
    Import/Export</span>.

3.  Click **Choose file** to navigate to the location of the file.

4.  Select the file, and then click **Open** from the file selection
    box.

5.  Click **Upload**.

6.  Verify that these are the policies or policy profiles that you want
    to import.

7.  Click **Commit**.

## Exporting a Policy, Policy Profile, or an Alert

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Control \>
    Import/Export</span>.

2.  From the **Export dropdown**, select policy profiles, policies, or
    alerts, depending on what you want to export.
    
    ![2013](images/2013.png)

3.  From the **Available Profiles** or **Available Policies** or
    **Available Alerts** list, select the items to export. Use the
    `Ctrl` key to select multiple items to export into one file.

4.  Click **Export**.

5.  Follow the prompts in your browser to save the file.

# Regular Expressions

In ManageIQ, regular expressions can be used to search the contents of a
file for a specific string for use in a condition. Below are listed the
items most commonly used with ManageIQ to search strings. These are a
small subset of all the items available to use in regular expressions.
If you are unfamiliar with regular expressions, there are many resources
available on the Internet, including
[www.regular-expressions.info](http://www.regular-expressions.info/).
Note that if you want to search a file, you must collect it as part of a
host analysis profile.

|                                  |                                                                                 |
| -------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Anchors                          |                                                                                 |
| ^                                | start of string                                                                 |
| $                                | end of string                                                                   |
| Character Classes                |                                                                                 |
| \\s                              | white space including spaces, tabs, and line breaks                             |
| \\S                              | not white space                                                                 |
| \\d                              | digit, same as \[0-9\]                                                          |
| \\D                              | not digit                                                                       |
| \\w                              | word                                                                            |
| \\W                              | not word                                                                        |
| Quantifiers                      |                                                                                 |
| \*                               | 0 or more of preceding characters                                               |
| \+                               | 1 or more of preceding characters                                               |
| ?                                | 0 or 1 of preceding character                                                   |
| Escape Character                 |                                                                                 |
| \\                               | put before a metacharacter to search for that actual character                  |
| Metacharacters                   |                                                                                 |
| ^ \[ . $ { \* ( \\ + ) | ? \< \> | must be used with the Escape Character if you are searching specifically for it |
| Special characters               |                                                                                 |
| \\n                              | new line                                                                        |
| \\t                              | tab                                                                             |
| Groups and Ranges                |                                                                                 |
| .                                | any character except new line (\\n)                                             |
| (a|b)                            | a or b                                                                          |
| ()                               | group                                                                           |
| \[abc\]                          | a or b or c                                                                     |
| \[^abc\]                         | not a or b or c                                                                 |
| \[a-q\]                          | letter between a and q                                                          |
| \[A-Q\]                          | upper case letter between A and Q                                               |
| \[0-7\]                          | digit between 0 and 7                                                           |
| Pattern modifiers                |                                                                                 |
| i                                | case insensitive                                                                |
| Other helpers                    |                                                                                 |
| .\*                              | swallows text between 2 words                                                   |
| \\s+                             | guarantees minimum of 1 whitespace between 2 words                              |
| \\s\*                            | guarantees 0 or more whitespace between 2 words                                 |
| ^\\s\*                           | beginning of line with zero or more whitespace                                  |
| \\s+.\*                          | swallows all text and white space between 2 words                               |
| \\d+                             | guarantees minimum of 1 number between 2 words                                  |
| \<\\w\>                          | identical to \<\[a-zA-Z0-(\_\]\>                                                |

Regular Expressions

|                                                                                                                                  |                                                                        |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Description                                                                                                                      | Regular Expression                                                     |
| (\[a-zA-Z0-9\]+)                                                                                                                 | Letters, numbers, hyphens                                              |
| Find the line beginning with `sshd`. Then, using a colon `:` as delimiter, check that the value four ":" over is equal to 99999. | ^sshd:\[^:\]\*:\[^:\]\*:\[^:\]\*:99999:                                |
| Verify that `PASS_MAX_DAYS` exists starting in position `1` and a value after it is ⇐ 90.                                        | ^\\s\*PASS\_MAX\_DAYS\\s+(\[0-9\]|\[1-8\]\[0-9\]|90)                   |
| Verify that `ROOTPW` (in any case) exists on an uncommented line.                                                                | /<sup>\[</sup>\#\]\*ROOTPW/i                                           |
| Verify that line in file starts with size and the value after is ⇐ 4096k.                                                        | ^\\s\*size\\s+(409\[0-6\]|40\[0-8\]\[0-9\]|\[123\]\[09\]{3}|\\d{1,3})k |
| Find line with string `restrict 127.0.0.1` that starts in position \`1 to ensure it is not commented out.                        | ^\\s\*restrict\\s+127\\.0\\.0\\.1                                      |
| Find an uncommented line that contains `/home`. There will be additional text before the desired string.                         | <sup>\[</sup>\#\]\*\\/home                                             |

Examples

# Reportable Fields in ManageIQ

ManageIQ provides a set of out of the box reports covering a variety of
areas. These fields are collected by ManageIQ from the different parts
of the infrastructure. Most of the fields are named directly as the
vendor would name them. However, there are some fields that ManageIQ
calculates given this data. Note that this list may vary by Provider and
may change as new Providers are added to ManageIQ. Also, note that the
value returned by each reportable field below is in megabytes (MB).

| Reportable Field                                                                              |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Avg                      |
| Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day High Avg                 |
| Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Low Avg                  |
| Datastores : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Avg         |
| Datastores : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day High Avg    |
| Datastores : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Low Avg     |
| Hosts : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Avg              |
| Hosts : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day High Avg         |
| Hosts : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Low Avg          |
| Miq Templates : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Avg      |
| Miq Templates : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day High Avg |
| Miq Templates : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Low Avg  |
| Miq Templates : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Max      |
| Provider : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Avg           |
| Provider : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day High Avg      |
| Provider : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Low Avg       |
| VMs : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Max                |
| VMs : Memory - Avg Used for Collected Intervals 30 Day Avg                                    |
| VMs : Memory - Avg Used for Collected Intervals 30 Day High Avg                               |

Clusters

| Reportable Field                                                                                                          |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Datastore : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Avg                                      |
| Datastore : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day High Avg                                 |
| Datastore : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Low Avg                                  |
| VM Template : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Avg                                    |
| VM Template : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day High Avg                               |
| VM Template : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Low Avg                                |
| VM Template : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Max                                    |
| VM and Instance : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Max                                |
| VM and Instance : Memory - Avg Used for Collected Intervals 30 Day Avg                                                    |
| VM and Instance : Memory - Avg Used for Collected Intervals 30 Day High Avg                                               |
| VM and Instance : Memory - Avg Used for Collected Intervals 30 Day Low Avg                                                |
| Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Avg                                                  |
| Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day High Avg                                             |
| Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Low Avg                                              |
| File Share.File System.Hosts : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Avg                   |
| File Share.File System.Hosts : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day High Avg              |
| File Share.File System.Hosts : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Low Avg               |
| File Share.File System.Logical Disk.Hosts : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Avg      |
| File Share.File System.Logical Disk.Hosts : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day High Avg |
| File Share.File System.Hosts : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Low Avg               |
| File Share.File System.Logical Disk.Hosts : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Avg      |
| File Share.File System.Logical Disk.Hosts : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day High Avg |
| File Share.File System.Logical Disk.Hosts : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Low Avg  |
| File Share.File System.Logical Disk.VMs : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Max        |
| File Share.File System.Logical Disk.VMs : Memory - Avg Used for Collected Intervals 30 Day Avg                            |
| File Share.File System.Logical Disk.VMs : Memory - Avg Used for Collected Intervals 30 Day High Avg                       |
| File Share.File System.Logical Disk.VMs : Memory - Avg Used for Collected Intervals 30 Day Low Avg                        |
| File Share.File System.VMs : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Max                     |
| File Share.File System.VMs : Memory - Avg Used for Collected Intervals 30 Day Avg                                         |
| File Share.File System.VMs : Memory - Avg Used for Collected Intervals 30 Day High Avg                                    |
| File Share.VMs : Memory - Avg Used for Collected Intervals 30 Day Low Avg                                                 |
| Hosts : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Avg                                          |
| Hosts : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day High Avg                                     |
| Hosts : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Low Avg                                      |
| Miq Templates : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Avg                                  |
| Miq Templates : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day High Avg                             |
| Miq Templates : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Low Avg                              |
| Miq Templates : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Max                                  |
| VMs : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Max                                            |
| VMs : Memory - Avg Used for Collected Intervals 30 Day Avg                                                                |
| VMs : Memory - Avg Used for Collected Intervals 30 Day High Avg                                                           |
| VMs : Memory - Avg Used for Collected Intervals 30 Day Low Avg                                                            |

Datastore Files

| Reportable Field                                                                                                          |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Avg                                                  |
| Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day High Avg                                             |
| Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Low Avg                                              |
| File Share.File System.Hosts : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Avg                   |
| File Share.File System.Hosts : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day High Avg              |
| File Share.File System.Hosts : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Low Avg               |
| File Share.File System.Logical Disk.Hosts : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Avg      |
| File Share.File System.Logical Disk.Hosts : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day High Avg |
| File Share.File System.Logical Disk.Hosts : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Low Avg  |
| File Share.File System.Logical Disk.VMs : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Max        |
| File Share.File System.Logical Disk.VMs : Memory - Avg Used for Collected Intervals 30 Day Avg                            |
| File Share.File System.Logical Disk.VMs : Memory - Avg Used for Collected Intervals 30 Day High Avg                       |
| File Share.File System.Logical Disk.VMs : Memory - Avg Used for Collected Intervals 30 Day Low Avg                        |
| File Share.File System.VMs : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Max                     |
| File Share.File System.VMs : Memory - Avg Used for Collected Intervals 30 Day Avg                                         |
| File Share.File System.VMs : Memory - Avg Used for Collected Intervals 30 Day High Avg                                    |
| File Share.File System.VMs : Memory - Avg Used for Collected Intervals 30 Day Low Avg                                     |
| File Share.Hosts : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Avg                               |
| File Share.Hosts : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day High Avg                          |
| File Share.Hosts : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Low Avg                           |
| File Share.VMs : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Max                                 |
| File Share.VMs : Memory - Avg Used for Collected Intervals 30 Day Avg                                                     |
| File Share.File System.VMs : Memory - Avg Used for Collected Intervals 30 Day High Avg                                    |
| File Share.File System.VMs : Memory - Avg Used for Collected Intervals 30 Day Low Avg                                     |
| File Share.Hosts : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Avg                               |
| File Share.Hosts : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day High Avg                          |
| File Share.Hosts : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Low Avg                           |
| File Share.VMs : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Max                                 |
| File Share.VMs : Memory - Avg Used for Collected Intervals 30 Day Avg                                                     |
| File Share.VMs : Memory - Avg Used for Collected Intervals 30 Day High Avg                                                |
| File Share.VMs : Memory - Avg Used for Collected Intervals 30 Day Low Avg                                                 |
| Hosts : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Avg                                          |
| Hosts : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day High Avg                                     |
| Hosts : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Low Avg                                      |
| Miq Templates : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Avg                                  |
| Miq Templates : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day High Avg                             |
| Miq Templates : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Low Avg                              |
| Miq Templates : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Max                                  |
| VMs : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Max                                            |
| VMs : Memory - Avg Used for Collected Intervals 30 Day Avg                                                                |
| VMs : Memory - Avg Used for Collected Intervals 30 Day High Avg                                                           |
| VMs : Memory - Avg Used for Collected Intervals 30 Day Low Avg                                                            |

Datastores

| Reportable Field                                                                              |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Miq Templates : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Avg      |
| Miq Templates : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day High Avg |
| Miq Templates : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Low Avg  |
| Miq Templates : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Max      |
| VMs : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Max                |
| VMs : Memory - Avg Used for Collected Intervals 30 Day Avg                                    |
| VMs : Memory - Avg Used for Collected Intervals 30 Day High Avg                               |
| VMs : Memory - Avg Used for Collected Intervals 30 Day Low Avg                                |
| Miq Templates : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Avg      |
| Miq Templates : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day High Avg |
| Miq Templates : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Low Avg  |
| Miq Templates : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Max      |
| VMs : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Max                |
| VMs : Memory - Avg Used for Collected Intervals 30 Day Avg                                    |
| VMs : Memory - Avg Used for Collected Intervals 30 Day High Avg                               |
| VMs : Memory - Avg Used for Collected Intervals 30 Day Low Avg                                |

EVM Groups

| Reportable Field                                                                              |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Avg                      |
| Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day High Avg                 |
| Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Low Avg                  |
| Cluster : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Avg            |
| Cluster : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day High Avg       |
| Cluster : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Low Avg        |
| Datastores : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Avg         |
| Datastores : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day High Avg    |
| Datastores : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Low Avg     |
| Miq Templates : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Avg      |
| Miq Templates : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day High Avg |
| Miq Templates : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Low Avg  |
| Miq Templates : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Max      |
| Provider : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Avg           |
| Provider : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day High Avg      |
| Provider : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Low Avg       |
| VMs : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Max                |
| VMs : Memory - Avg Used for Collected Intervals 30 Day Avg                                    |
| VMs : Memory - Avg Used for Collected Intervals 30 Day High Avg                               |
| VMs : Memory - Avg Used for Collected Intervals 30 Day Low Avg                                |

Hosts

| Reportable Field                                                                                          |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Avg                                  |
| Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day High Avg                             |
| Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Low Avg                              |
| Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Max                                  |
| Cluster : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Avg                        |
| Cluster : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day High Avg                   |
| Cluster : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Low Avg                    |
| Datastore : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Avg                      |
| Datastore : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day High Avg                 |
| Datastore : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Low Avg                  |
| Datastores : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Avg                     |
| Datastores : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day High Avg                |
| Datastores : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Low Avg                 |
| Host : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Avg                           |
| Host : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day High Avg                      |
| Host : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Low Avg                       |
| Provider : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Avg                       |
| Provider : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day High Avg                  |
| Provider : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Low Avg                   |
| Provisioned From Template : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Avg      |
| Provisioned From Template : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day High Avg |
| Provisioned From Template : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Low Avg  |
| Provisioned From Template : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Max      |
| Provisioned VMs : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Avg                |
| Provisioned VMs : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day High Avg           |
| Provisioned VMs : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Low Avg            |
| Provisioned VMs : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Max                |
| Service.VMs : Memory - Aggregate Used for Child VMs for Collected Intervals 30 Day Max                    |
| Service.VMs : Memory - Avg Used for Collected Intervals 30 Day Avg                                        |
| Service.VMs : Memory - Avg Used for Collected Intervals 30 Day High Avg                                   |
| Service.VMs : Memory - Avg Used for Collected Intervals 30 Day Low Avg                                    |

Images
