# Policies

Policies are used to manage your virtual environment. There are two
types of policies available: compliance and control. Compliance policies
are used to harden your virtual infrastructure, making sure that your
security requirements are adhered to. Control policies are used to check
for a specific condition and perform an action based on the outcome. For
example:

  - Prevent virtual machines from running without an administrator
    account.

  - Prevent virtual machines from starting if certain patches are not
    applied.

  - Configure the behavior of a production virtual machine to only start
    if it is running on a production host.

  - Force a SmartState Analysis when a host is added or removed from a
    cluster.

## Control Policies

A control policy is a combination of an event, a condition, and an
action. This combination provides management capabilities in your
virtual environment.

  - An event is a trigger to check a condition.

  - A condition is a test triggered by an event.

  - An action is an execution that occurs if a condition is met.

### Creating Control Policies

Create control policies by combining an event, a condition, and an
action. Plan carefully the purpose of your policy before creating it.
You can also use a scope expression that is tested immediately when the
policy is triggered by an event. If the item is out of scope, then the
policy does not continue on to the conditions, and none of the
associated actions run.

The procedure below describes how to create a control policy, its
underlying conditions, and assign its events and actions in one process.
Conditions and custom actions can be created separately as well. Those
procedures are described in later sections in conditions and actions.
Also, a description of all events is provided in events.

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Control \> Explorer</span>.

2.  Click the **Policies** accordion, and select **Control Policies**.

3.  Select either **Host Control Policies** or **VM Control Policies**
    or **Replicator Control Policies** or **Pod Control Policies** or
    **Container Node Control Policies** or **Container Image Control
    Policies**.

4.  Click ![image](images/1847.png) (**Configuration**),
    ![image](images/1862.png) (**Add a New Host / VM / Replicator / Pod
    / Node / Image Control Policy**).

5.  Type in a **Description**.
    
    ![image](images/1849.png)

6.  Uncheck **Active** if you do not want this policy processed even
    when assigned to a resource.

7.  You can enter a **Scope** here (You can also create a scope as part
    of a condition, or not use one at all). If the host or virtual
    machine is not included in the scope, no actions will be run.

8.  In the **Notes** area, add a detailed explanation of the policy.

9.  Click **Add**. You are brought to the page where you add conditions
    and events to your new policy.
    
    ![image](images/1850.png)

10. Click ![image](images/1847.png) (**Configuration**) to associate
    conditions, events, and actions with the policy.

### Editing Basic Information, Scope, and Notes for a Policy

As your enterpriseâ€™s needs change, you can change the name of a policy
or its scope. If the items being evaluated are out of scope, policy
processing stops and no actions run.

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Control \> Explorer</span>.

2.  Click the **Policies** accordion, and select the policy to edit.

3.  Click ![image](images/1847.png) (**Configuration**),
    ![image](images/1851.png) (**Edit Basic Info, Scope, and Notes**).

4.  In the **Scope** area, create a general condition based on a simple
    attribute. Or, click on an existing expression to edit it. Based on
    what you choose, different options appear. Configuring a **Scope**
    is optional for a policy.
    
    ![image](images/1853.png)
    
      - Click **Field** to create criteria based on field values.
        
        ![image](images/1854.png)
    
      - Click **Count of** to create criteria based on the count of
        something, such as the number of snapshots for a virtual
        machine, or the number of virtual machines on a host.
        
        ![image](images/1855.png)
    
      - Click **Tag** to create criteria based on tags assigned to your
        resources. For example, you can check the power state of a
        virtual machine or see if it is tagged as production.
        
        ![image](images/1856.png)
    
      - Click **Find** to seek a particular value, and then check a
        property. For example, finding the **Admin** account and
        checking that it is enabled. Use the following check commands:
        
          - **Check Any**: The result is true if one or more of the find
            results satisfy the check condition.
        
          - **Check All**: All of the find results must match for a true
            result.
        
          - **Check Count**: If the result satisfies the expression in
            check count, the result is true.
            
            ![image](images/1857.png)
    
      - Click **Registry** to create criteria based on registry values.
        For example, you can check if DCOM is enabled on a Windows
        System. Note that this applies only to Windows operating
        systems. Registry will only be available if you are editing a VM
        Control Policy.
        
        ![image](images/1858.png)

5.  Click ![image](images/1863.png) (**Commit Expression Element
    Changes**) to add the scope.

6.  In the **Notes** area, make the required changes.

7.  Click **Save**.

### Copying a Policy

You can copy a policy if its contents are similar to a new one that you
want to create, then change the condition or event associated with it.
This enables you to make new policies efficiently.

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Control \> Explorer</span>.

2.  Click the **Policies** accordion, and select the policy you want to
    copy.

3.  Click ![image](images/1847.png)(**Configuration**), and an option to
    copy the policy should appear; for example,
    ![image](images/1859.png) (**Copy this Image Policy**).
    
    ![image](images/1860.png)

4.  Click **OK** to confirm.

The new policy is created with a prefix of **Copy of** in its
description, and it can be viewed in the Policy accordion.

![image](images/1860-cppolicy.png)

### Deleting a Policy

You can remove policies that you no longer need. You can only remove
policies that are not assigned to a policy profile.

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Control \> Explorer</span>.

2.  Click the **Policies** accordion, and select the policy you want to
    remove.

3.  Click ![image](images/1847.png) (**Configuration**),
    ![image](images/1861.png) (**Delete this Host/VM and
    Instance/Replicator/Pod/Node/Image Policy**).

4.  Click **OK** to confirm.

### Creating a New Policy Condition

If you have not already created a condition to use with this policy, you
can create one directly from inside the policy. A condition can contain
two elements: a scope, and an expression. The expression is mandatory,
but the scope is optional. A scope is a general attribute that is
quickly checked before evaluating a more complex expression. You can
create a scope at either the policy or condition level.

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Control \> Explorer</span>.

2.  Click the **Policies** accordion, and select the policy you want to
    create a new condition for.

3.  Click ![image](images/1847.png) (**Configuration**),
    ![image](images/1862.png) (**Create a new Condition assigned to this
    Policy**).

4.  Type in a **Description** for the condition. It must be unique to
    all the conditions.
    
    ![image](images/1864.png)

5.  Click ![image](images/1851.png) (**Edit this Scope**) in the
    **Scope** area to create a general expression based on a simple
    attribute, such as operating system version. Based on what you
    choose, different options display. **Scope** is optional.
    
      - Click **Field** to create criteria based on field values.
        
        ![image](images/1865.png)
    
      - Click **Count of** to create criteria based on the count of
        something, such as the number of snapshots for a virtual
        machine, or the number of virtual machines on a host.
        
        ![image](images/1866.png)
    
      - Click **Tag** to create criteria based on tags assigned to your
        resources. For example, you can check the power state of a
        virtual machine or see if it is tagged as production.
        
        ![image](images/1867.png)
    
      - Click **Find** to seek a particular value, and then check a
        property. For example, finding the Admin account and checking
        that it is enabled. Use the following check commands:
        
          - **Check Any**: The result is true if one or more of the find
            results satisfy the check condition.
        
          - **Check All**: All of the find results must match for a true
            result.
        
          - **Check Count**: If the result satisfies the expression in
            check count, the result is true.
            
            ![image](images/1868.png)
    
      - Click **Registry** to create criteria based on registry values.
        For example, you can check if DCOM is enabled on a Windows
        System. Note that this applies only to Windows operating
        systems. Registry is only available if you are creating a VM
        Control Policy.
        
        ![image](images/1869.png)

6.  Click ![image](images/1863.png) (**Commit expression element
    changes**) to add the scope.

7.  Click ![image](images/1851.png) (**Edit this Expression**) in the
    **Expression** area. Based on what you choose, options display as
    per the choices presented in the **Scope** area detailed above.

8.  Click ![image](images/1863.png) (**Commit Expression Element
    Changes**) to add the expression.

9.  In **Notes**, type in a detailed explanation of the condition.

10. Click **Add**.

The condition is created and is assigned directly to the policy. Note
that the condition can be assigned to other policies.

### Editing Policy Condition Assignments

Use this procedure to use a condition that has already been created
either separately or as part of another policy. You can also remove a
condition from a policy that no longer applies.

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Control \> Explorer</span>.

2.  Click the **Policies** accordion, and select the policy you want to
    assign conditions to.

3.  Click ![image](images/1847.png) (**Configuration**),
    ![image](images/1851.png) (**Edit this Policyâ€™s Condition
    assignments**).

4.  From the **Condition Selection** area, you can assign conditions to
    the policy, remove all conditions from the policy, or remove
    specific conditions from the policy.
    
    ![image](images/1879.png)
    
      - To add one or several conditions, select all the conditions you
        want to apply from the **Available Conditions** box. Use `Ctrl`
        to add multiple conditions to a policy. Then, click
        ![image](images/1876.png) (**Move selected Conditions into this
        Policy**).
    
      - Click ![image](images/1877.png) (**Remove all Conditions from
        this Policy**) to unassign any conditions from this policy.
    
      - To remove one or some conditions, select all the conditions you
        want to remove from the **Policy Conditions** box. Use `Ctrl` to
        select multiple conditions. Then, click
        ![image](images/1878.png) (**Remove selected Conditions from
        this Policy**)

5.  Click **Save**.

### Editing Policy Event Assignments

The policy evaluates its scopes and conditions when specified events
occur in your virtual infrastructure. This procedure enables you to
select those events and the actions that should occur based on the
evaluation of the scopes and conditions for the policy.

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Control \> Explorer</span>.

2.  Click the **Policies** accordion and select the control policy you
    want to assign events to.

3.  Click ![image](images/1847.png) (**Configuration**),
    ![image](images/1851.png) (**Edit this Policyâ€™s Event
    assignments**).

4.  Check all the events you want to assign to this policy.

5.  Click **Save**.

### Assigning an Action to an Event

This procedure describes how to assign an action to an event.

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Control \> Explorer</span>.

2.  Click the **Policies** accordion, and select the policy you want to
    assign actions to.

3.  From the **Events** area, click on the description of the event you
    want to assign an action to.

4.  Click ![image](images/1847.png) (**Configuration**),
    ![image](images/1851.png) (**Edit Actions for this Policy Event**).

5.  Select all the appropriate actions from the **Available Actions**
    box, inside the **Order of Actions if ALL Conditions are True**.
    These are the actions that will take place if the resources meet the
    Condition of the Policy.
    
    ![image](images/1882.png)
    
    <div class="note">
    
    Each selected action can be executed synchronously or
    asynchronously; synchronous actions will not start until the
    previous synchronous action is completed, and asynchronous action
    allows the next action to start whether or not the first action has
    completed. Also, at least one ManageIQ server in the ManageIQ zone
    must have the notifier server role enabled for the trap to be sent.
    
    </div>

6.  Click the add button ( ![image](images/1876.png)), then:
    
      - Click the action, then click ![image](images/1883.png) (**Set
        selected Actions to Asynchronous**) to make it asynchronous.
    
      - Click the action, then click ![image](images/1884.png) (**Set
        selected Actions to Synchronous**) to make it synchronous. If
        creating a synchronous action, use the up and down arrows to
        identify in what order you want the actions to run.

7.  Select all the actions from the appropriate **Available Actions**
    box, inside of the **Order of Actions if ANY Conditions are False**.
    These are the actions that take place if the resources do not meet
    the condition of the policy.

8.  Click **Save**.

## Compliance Policies

Compliance policies are specifically designed to secure your environment
by checking conditions that you create. These conditions can include the
same conditions that you would use in a control policy, and most of the
procedures are the same. However, a compliance policy automatically
assigns the mark as a compliant action when the entity type (virtual
machine or host, for example) to which the policy applies passes all of
the conditions. If any of the conditions are not met, then the virtual
machine or host is marked as non-compliant. The compliance status is
shown in the summary screen for the entity type and on the compare and
drift screens.

### Creating a Compliance Policy

Create compliance policies by assigning or creating a condition.
ManageIQ automatically assigns the events and actions to the compliance
policy as opposed to a control policy where you must define this
yourself. The entity type (VM or host, for example) compliance check
event is assigned to the compliance policy. A compliance policy runs the
mark as compliant action when the virtual machine or host passes all of
the conditions. If any of the conditions are not met, then the virtual
machine or host is marked as non-compliant.

If you do not know how to create a condition, see Creating a New Policy
Condition. Carefully plan the purpose of your policy before creating it.
You can also use a scope expression that is tested immediately when the
compliance check event triggers the policy. If the item is out of scope,
then the policy does not continue on to the conditions, and none of the
associated actions run.

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Control \> Explorer</span>.

2.  Click on the **Policies** accordion, and select **Compliance
    Policies**.

3.  Select either **Host Compliance Policies** or **VM Compliance
    Policies** or **Replicator Compliance Policies** or **Pod Compliance
    Policies** or **Container Node Compliance Policies** or **Container
    Image Compliance Policies**.

4.  Click ![image](images/1847.png) (**Configuration**),
    ![image](images/1862.png) (**Add a new Compliance Policy**).

5.  Type in a **Description** for the policy.
    
    ![image](images/1935.png)

6.  Uncheck **Active** if you do not want this policy processed even
    when assigned to a resource.

7.  You can enter a scope here. (You can also create a scope as part of
    a condition, or not use one at all.) If the host or virtual machine
    is not included in the scope, no actions run.

8.  In the **Notes** area, add a detailed explanation of the policy.

9.  Click **Add**.

You should add one or several conditions:

  - You can create a new condition by clicking ![image](images/1847.png)
    (**Configuration**), ![image](images/1862.png) (**Create a new
    Condition assigned to this Policy**), as described in [Creating a
    New Policy Condition](#Creating_a_new_Policy_Condition).

  - You can use an existing condition by clicking
    ![image](images/1847.png) (**Configuration**),
    ![image](images/1851.png) (**Edit this Policyâ€™s Condition
    assignments**), as described in [Editing Policy Condition
    Assignments](#policy-edit-condition-assignment).

By default, if any of the conditions are false, the virtual machine is
marked as non-compliant. To add other actions, such as sending an email
if the virtual machine fails the compliance test:

1.  Click the **Compliance Check** event under the policy (exact name
    depends on entity type, for example **VM Compliance Check**).

2.  Click ![image](images/1847.png) (**Configuration**),
    ![image](images/1851.png) (**Edit Actions for this Policy Event**).

3.  Select **Stop Virtual Machine** and **Send Email** from the
    **Available Actions** area in **Order of Actions if ANY conditions
    are False**. (**Mark as Non-Compliant** should already be selected.)
    
    ![image](images/1933.png)

4.  Click ![image](images/1876.png) (**Move selected Actions into this
    Event**).

5.  Click **Add**.

You can now make this part of a policy profile. After assigning the
policy profile to the virtual machine, you can check it for its
compliance status either on a schedule or on demand.

### Creating a Compliance Condition to Check Host File Contents

ManageIQ Control provides the ability to create a compliance condition
that checks file contents. Use this to be sure that internal operating
system settings meet your security criteria. Regular expressions are
used to create the search pattern. Test your regular expressions
thoroughly before using them in a production environment.

Note that to search file contents you will need to have collected the
file using a host analysis profile.

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Control \> Explorer</span>.

2.  Click the **Conditions** accordion, and select **Host Conditions**.

3.  Click ![image](images/1847.png) (**Configuration**),
    ![image](images/1862.png) (**Add a New Host Condition**).

4.  In **Basic Information**, type in a **Description** for the
    condition.
    
    ![image](images/1937.png)

5.  Editing the **Scope** area is not necessary for this procedure. Skip
    editing any **Scope** conditions.

6.  If the **Expression** area is not automatically opened, click
    ![image](images/1851.png) (**Edit this Expression**), then edit the
    condition area to create a general condition based on a simple
    attribute. Based on what you choose, different options appear.
    
      - Click **Find**, then **Host.Files : Name**, and the parameters
        to select the file that you want to check.
    
      - Click **Check Any**, **Contents**, **Regular Expression
        Matches**, and type the expression. For example, if you want to
        make sure that permit root login is set to no, type
        `^\s*PermitRootLogin\s+no`.
        
        ![image](images/1936.png)

7.  Click ![image](images/1863.png) (**Commit expression element
    changes**) to add the expression.

8.  In **Notes** area, type in a detailed explanation of the condition.

9.  Click **Add**.

### Checking for Compliance

After you have created your compliance policies and assigned them to a
policy profile, you can check compliance in two ways. You can either
schedule the compliance check or perform the check directly from the
summary screen.

The compliance check runs all compliance policies that are assigned to
the host or virtual machine. If the item fails any of the checks, it is
marked as non-compliant in the itemâ€™s summary screen.

<div class="note">

To schedule, you must have `EvmRole-administrator` access to the
ManageIQ server.

</div>

#### Scheduling a Compliance Check

1.  Click ![config gear](images/config-gear.png) (**Configuration**).

2.  Click the **Settings** accordion, and select **Schedules**.

3.  Click ![image](images/1847.png) (**Configuration**),
    ![image](images/1862.png) (**Add a new Schedule**).

4.  In the **Adding a new Schedule** area, type in a name and
    description for the schedule.
    
    ![image](images/1940.png)

5.  Select **Active** if you want to enable this scan.

6.  From the **Action** dropdown, select the type of compliance check
    you want to schedule. Depending on the type of analysis you choose,
    you are presented with one of the following group boxes:
    
      - If you choose **VM Compliance Check**, you are presented with
        **VM Selection** where you can choose to check all VMs, all VMs
        for a specific provider, all VMs for a cluster, all VMs for a
        specific host, a single VM, or you can select VMs using a global
        filter.
        
        ![image](images/1939.png)
    
      - If you choose **Host Compliance Check**, you are presented with
        **Host Selection** where you can choose to analyze all hosts,
        all hosts for a specific provider, all hosts for a cluster, a
        single host, or you can select hosts using a global filter.
    
      - If you choose **Container Image Compliance Check**, you are
        presented with **Image Selection** where you can choose to
        analyze all images, all images for a specific provider, or a
        single image.

<div class="note">

You can only schedule a host analysis for connected virtual machines,
not repository virtual machines that were discovered through that host.
Since repository virtual machines do not retain a relationship with the
host that discovered them, there is no current way to scan them through
the scheduling feature. The host is shown because it may have connected
virtual machines in the future when the schedule is set to run.

</div>

1.  From the **Run** dropdown, select how often you want the analysis to
    run. Your options after that depend on which run option you choose.
    
    ![image](images/1938.png)
    
      - Select **Once** to have the analysis run just one time.
    
      - Select **Daily** to run the analysis on a daily basis. You are
        prompted to select how many days you want between each analysis.
    
      - Select **Hourly** to run the analysis hourly. You are prompted
        to select how many hours you want between each analysis.

2.  Select the time zone for the schedule.

3.  Type or select a date to begin the schedule in **Starting Date**.

4.  Select a starting time based on a 24-hour clock in the selected time
    zone.

5.  Click **Add**.

#### Checking a Virtual Machine for Compliance from the Summary Screen

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Compute \> Infrastructure \>
    Virtual Machines</span>, select the virtual machine you want to
    check for compliance.

2.  Click ![image](images/1941.png) (**Policy**), and then
    ![image](images/1942.png) (**Check Compliance of Last Known
    Configuration**).

3.  A confirmation message appears. Click **OK**.

4.  To view the compliance history, click on the virtual machine. Under
    **Compliance**, if **History** is **Available**, click on it to see
    its compliance history.
    
    ![image](images/1943.png)

#### Checking a Host for Compliance from the Summary Screen

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Compute \> Infrastructure \>
    Hosts</span>, click the host you want to check for compliance.

2.  Click ![image](images/1941.png) (**Policy**), and then
    ![image](images/1942.png) (**Check Compliance of Last Known
    Configuration**) or ![image](images/1942.png) (**Analyze then Check
    Compliance**).

3.  To view the compliance history, click **Available** next to
    **History**.
    
    ![image](images/1945.png)

#### Checking a Replicator for Compliance from the Summary Screen

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Compute \> Containers \>
    Replicators</span>, select the replicator you want to check for
    compliance.

2.  Click ![image](images/1941.png) (**Policy**), and then
    ![image](images/1942.png) (**Check Compliance of Last Known
    Configuration**).

3.  A confirmation message appears. Click **OK**.

4.  . To view the compliance history, click on the replicator. Under
    **Compliance**, if **History** is **Available**, click to see its
    compliance history.
    
    ![image](images/1943.png)

#### Checking a Pod for Compliance from the Summary Screen

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Compute \> Containers \>
    Pods</span>, select the pod you want to check for compliance.

2.  Click ![image](images/1941.png) (**Policy**), and then
    ![image](images/1942.png) (**Check Compliance of Last Known
    Configuration**).

3.  A confirmation message appears. Click **OK**.

4.  To view the compliance history, click on the pod. Under
    **Compliance**, if **History** is **Available**, click to see its
    compliance history.
    
    ![image](images/1943.png)

#### Checking a Container Node for Compliance from the Summary Screen

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Compute \> Containers \>
    Container Nodes</span>, click the node you want to check for
    compliance.

2.  Click ![image](images/1941.png) (**Policy**), and then
    ![image](images/1942.png) (**Check Compliance of Last Known
    Configuration**).

3.  A confirmation message appears. Click **OK**.

4.  To view the compliance history, click on the node. Under
    **Compliance**, if **History** is **Available**, click to see its
    compliance history.
    
    ![image](images/1943.png)

#### Checking a Container Image for Compliance from the Summary Screen

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Compute \> Infrastructure \>
    Container Images</span>, select the container image you want to
    check for compliance.

2.  Click ![image](images/1941.png) (**Policy**), and then
    ![image](images/1942.png) (**Check Compliance of Last Known
    Configuration**).

3.  A confirmation message appears. Click **OK**.

4.  To view the compliance history, click on the container image. Under
    **Compliance**, if **History** is **Available**, click to see its
    compliance history.
    
    ![image](images/1943.png)

# Conditions

Conditions are tests performed on attributes of virtual machines. A
condition can contain two elements, a scope, and an expression. The
expression is mandatory, but the scope is optional. A scope is a general
attribute that is quickly checked before evaluating a more complex
expression. For example, you might use a scope to check the operating
system, and use an expression to check for a specific set of
applications or security patches that only apply to the operating system
referenced in the scope. If no conditions, scope or expression, are
defined for a policy, the policy is considered unconditional and returns
a true value.

## Creating a Condition

You can create a condition either from within a policy screen or by
going directly to the expression editor in the ManageIQ console. You
need to define a description and an expression element. The expression
element defines what criteria you want to use to test the condition.

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Control \> Explorer</span>.

2.  Click the **Conditions** accordion, and select either **Host / Node
    Conditions** or **VM and Instance Conditions** or **Replicator
    Conditions** or **Pod** or **Node Conditions** or **Image
    Conditions**.

3.  Click ![image](images/1847.png) (**Configuration**), then
    ![image](images/1862.png) (**Add a New Host / VM / Replicator / Pod
    / Node / Image Condition**).

4.  Enter a **Description** for the condition.
    
    ![image](images/1886.png)

5.  Click **Edit this Scope** in the **Scope** area to create a general
    condition based on a simple attribute. Based on what you choose,
    different options appear. Creating a scope is optional.
    
    ![image](images/1887.png)
    
      - Click **Field** to create criteria based on field values.
        
        ![image](images/1888.png)
    
      - Click **Count of** to create criteria based on the count of
        something, such as the number of network adapters on the host.
        
        ![image](images/1889.png)
    
      - Click **Tag** to create criteria based on tags assigned to your
        resources. For example, you can check the power state of a
        virtual machine or see if it is tagged as production.
        
        ![image](images/1890.png)
    
      - Click **Find** to seek a particular value, and then check a
        property. For example, finding the Admin account and checking
        that it is enabled. Use the following check commands:
        
          - **Check Any**: The result is true if one or more of the find
            results satisfy the check condition.
        
          - **Check All**: All of the find results must match for a true
            result.
        
          - **Check Count**: If the result satisfies the expression in
            check count, the result is true.
            
            ![image](images/1891.png)
    
      - Click **Registry** to create criteria based on registry values.
        For example, you can check if DCOM is enabled on a Windows
        System. Note that this applies only to Windows operating
        systems. Registry will only be available if you are creating a
        VM Condition.
        
        ![image](images/1892.png)

6.  Click ![image](images/1863.png) (**Commit expression element
    changes**) to add the scope.

7.  Click **Edit this Expression** in the **Expression** area to create
    a general condition based on a simple attribute. Based on what you
    choose, different options appear.
    
      - Click **Field** to create criteria based on field values.
        
        ![image](images/1893.png)
    
      - Click **Count of** to create criteria based on the count of
        something, such as the number of snapshots for a virtual
        machine, or the number of virtual machines on a host.
        
        ![image](images/1894.png)
    
      - Click **Tag** to create criteria based on tags assigned to your
        resources. For example, you can check the power state of a
        virtual machine or see if it is tagged as production.
        
        ![image](images/1895.png)
    
      - Click **Find** to seek a particular value, and then check a
        property. For example, finding the Admin account and checking
        that it is enabled. Use the following check commands.
        
          - **Check Any**: The result is true if one or more of the find
            results satisfy the check condition.
        
          - **Check All**: All of the find results must match for a true
            result.
        
          - **Check Count**: If the result satisfies the expression in
            check count, the result is true.
            
            ![image](images/1896.png)
    
      - Click **Registry** to create criteria based on registry values.
        For example, you can check if DCOM is enabled on a Windows
        System. Note that this applies only to Windows operating
        systems.
        
        ![image](images/1897.png)

8.  Click ![image](images/1863.png) (**Commit expression element
    changes**) to add the expression.

9.  In **Notes**, type in a detailed explanation of the condition.

10. Click **Add**.

## Editing a Condition

Edit a condition to add more expressions to it or modify its properties.
You can edit conditions that you have created.

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Control \> Explorer</span>.

2.  Click the **Conditions** accordion, and click on the condition you
    want to edit.

3.  Click ![image](images/1847.png) (**Configuration**),
    ![image](images/1851.png) (**Edit this Condition**).

4.  Click in either the **Scope** or **Expression** area, and click the
    part of the condition to edit.
    
    ![image](images/1898.png)

5.  Make any edits for the current expression.
    
      - Click ![image](images/1863.png) (**Commit expression element
        changes**) to add the changes.
    
      - Click ![image](images/1899.png) (**Undo the previous change**)
        to cancel the last action executed.
    
      - Click ![image](images/1900.png) (**Redo the previous change**)
        to repeat the previous action executed.
    
      - Click ![image](images/1901.png) (**AND with a new expression
        element**) to create a logical AND with a new expression
        element.
    
      - Click ![image](images/1902.png) (**OR with a new expression
        element**) to create a logical OR with a new expression element.
    
      - Click ![image](images/1903.png) (**Wrap this expression element
        with a NOT**) to create a logical NOT on an expression element
    
      - Click ![image](images/1904.png) (**Remove this expression
        element**) to take out the current expression element.

6.  When you have made all of the changes to the condition, click
    **Save**.

## Copying a Condition

You can copy a condition to create a similar condition, then change the
values associated with it. You can copy the sample conditions provided
to customize them to your environment.

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Control \> Explorer</span>.

2.  Click the **Conditions** accordion, and select the condition you
    want to copy.

3.  Click ![image](images/1847.png) (**Configuration**),
    ![image](images/1859.png) (**Copy this Condition to a new
    Condition**).

4.  Make any changes you need for the new condition. The description
    must be unique to all conditions.

5.  Click **Add**.

## Deleting a Condition

Remove conditions that are no longer applicable. You can only delete
conditions that are not part of a policy. To be able to delete the
condition, you must remove the policy first.

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Control \> Explorer</span>.

2.  Click the **Conditions** accordion, and click on the condition you
    want to remove.

3.  Click ![image](images/1847.png) (**Configuration**),
    ![image](images/1861.png) (**Delete this VM and Instance
    Condition**).

4.  Click **OK** to confirm.

# Actions

Actions are performed after the condition is evaluated. Control comes
with a set of default actions that you can choose from. You can also
create some of your own.

| Action                                                      | Description                                                                                                        |
| ----------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Cancel vCenter Task                                         | Stop current vCenter Task. Due to limitations of vCenter, this applies only to cloning tasks.                      |
| Check Host or VM Compliance                                 | Run compliance checks.                                                                                             |
| Collect Running Processes on VM Guest OS                    | Collect the list of running processes from the guest operating system.                                             |
| Connect All CD-ROM Drives for Virtual Machine               | Connect all the CD-ROM drives for the virtual Machine.                                                             |
| Connect All Floppy Drives for Virtual Machine               | Connect all the floppy drives for the virtual machine.                                                             |
| Connect All Floppy and CD-ROM Drives for Virtual Machine    | Connect all of the floppy and CD-ROM drives for virtual machine.                                                   |
| Convert to Template                                         | Convert this virtual machine to a template.                                                                        |
| Delete all Snapshots                                        | Remove all snapshots for a virtual machine.                                                                        |
| Delete Most Recent Snapshot                                 | Removes a virtual machineâ€™s most recent snapshot.                                                                  |
| Delete VM from Disk                                         | Remove the virtual machine from disk.                                                                              |
| Disconnect All CD-ROM Drives for Virtual Machine            | Disconnect all the CD-ROM drives for the virtual machine.                                                          |
| Disconnect All Floppy Drives for Virtual Machine            | Disconnect all the floppy drives for the virtual machine.                                                          |
| Disconnect All Floppy and CD-ROM Drives for Virtual Machine | Disconnect all of the floppy and CD-ROM drives for virtual machine.                                                |
| Execute an external script                                  | Run an external script.                                                                                            |
| Generate Audit Event                                        | Write an entry to the audit log and to the VMDB.                                                                   |
| Generate log message                                        | Write an entry to the ManageIQ log.                                                                                |
| Initiate SmartState Analysis for Host                       | Start a SmartState Analysis for a host.                                                                            |
| Initiate SmartState Analysis for VM                         | Start a SmartState Analysis for a virtual machine.                                                                 |
| Invoke a Custom Automation                                  | For use with ManageIQ automate. It enables you to run tasks and notifications automatically.                       |
| Mark as Non-Compliant                                       | Used with compliance policies. Mark resource as non-compliant. (Compliance status is viewable in summary screens.) |
| Prevent current event from proceeding                       | Stop the current event from continuing.                                                                            |
| Put Virtual Machine Guest OS in Standby                     | Put the virtual machines operating system in standby mode.                                                         |
| Raise Automation Event                                      | Used with ManageIQ automate.                                                                                       |
| Refresh data from vCenter                                   | Perform a refresh of the vCenter.                                                                                  |
| Remove Virtual Machine from Inventory                       | Take the virtual machine out of inventory.                                                                         |
| Retire Virtual Machine                                      | Retire the virtual machine. (It will remain in inventory, but cannot be started.)                                  |
| Show EVM Event on Timeline                                  | To show the EVM event on the timeline.                                                                             |
| Shutdown Virtual Machines Guest OS                          | Shut down the virtual machineâ€™s operating system.                                                                  |
| Start Virtual Machine                                       | Power on the virtual machine.                                                                                      |
| Stop Virtual Machine                                        | Power off the virtual machine.                                                                                     |
| Suspend Virtual Machine                                     | Suspend the virtual machine.                                                                                       |

Default Actions and Descriptions

## Custom Actions

You can create a custom action using the ManageIQ console. Enter a
description and action type. Procedures for each type of action are
shown in the sections below. When you create a policy, you can associate
actions with specific events.

| Custom Action                     | Description                                                                                                                   |
| --------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Assign Profile to Analysis Task   | When initiating a Smart State Analysis event, you can assign a specific analysis profile.                                     |
| Create a Snapshot                 | Creates a snapshot with a name that you provide.                                                                              |
| Delete Snapshots by Age           | Removes snapshots based on how old they are.                                                                                  |
| Evaluate Alerts                   | Checks for alerts. This is required for the alert to be delivered.                                                            |
| Inherit Parent Tags               | Assigns tags from the parent cluster, host, datastore, or resource pool.                                                      |
| Invoke a Custom Automation        | For use with ManageIQ automate.                                                                                               |
| Reconfigure CPUs                  | Reconfigure the number of CPUs for a virtual machine to the number you specify.                                               |
| Reconfigure Memory                | Reconfigure the amount of memory for a virtual machine to the amount you specify.                                             |
| Remove Tags                       | Removes tags from the resource.                                                                                               |
| Run Ansible Playbook              | Run an Ansible playbook against an inventory selection.                                                                       |
| Send an E-mail                    | Send an email to an address that you provide. This type of action can be used in an alert.                                    |
| Send an SNMP trap                 | Send an SNMP (Simple Network Management Protocol) trap to the host you specify. This type of action can be used for an alert. |
| Set a Custom Attribute in vCenter | Set the value of a custom attribute in vCenter.                                                                               |
| Tag                               | Assign a company tag that you specify to a virtual machine.                                                                   |

Custom Actions and Descriptions

### Creating an Assign Profile to Analysis Task Action

Use this action for assigning specific analysis profiles to virtual
machines. You must create an analysis profile before assigning it to an
action. You can only assign this action to an analysis start event.

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Control \> Explorer</span>.

2.  Click the **Actions** accordion, then click
    ![image](images/1847.png) (**Configuration**),
    ![image](images/1862.png) (**Add a new Action**).

3.  Type in a **Description** for the **Action Type**.
    
    ![image](images/1905.png)

4.  Select **Assign Profile to Analysis Task** from **Action Type**.

5.  Select a profile from the **Analysis profiles**.

6.  Click **Add**.

### Creating a Snapshot Action

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Control \> Explorer</span>.

2.  Click the **Actions** accordion, then click
    ![image](images/1847.png) (**Configuration**),
    ![image](images/1862.png) (**Add a new Action**).

3.  Type in a **Description** for the action.
    
    ![image](images/1907.png)

4.  Select **Create a Snapshot** from **Action Type**.

5.  Type in a **Snapshot Name**.
    
    ![image](images/1908.png)

6.  Click **Add** when you are finished.

### Deleting Snapshots by Age

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Control \> Explorer</span>.

2.  Click the **Actions** accordion, then click
    ![image](images/1847.png) (**Configuration**),
    ![image](images/1862.png) (**Add a new Action**).

3.  Type in a **Description** for the action.
    
    ![image](images/1909.png)

4.  Select **Delete Snapshots by Age** from **Action Type**.

5.  Select the age of snapshots to delete.
    
    ![image](images/1910.png)

6.  Click **Add**.

### Evaluating an Alert

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Control \> Explorer</span>.

2.  Click the **Actions** accordion, then click
    ![image](images/1847.png) (**Configuration**),
    ![image](images/1862.png) (**Add a new Action**).

3.  Type in a **Description** for the action.
    
    ![image](images/1911.png)

4.  Select **Evaluate Alerts** from **Action Type**.

5.  Select the alerts to be evaluated and click
    ![image](images/1876.png) (Move selected Alerts into this Action).
    Use the `Ctrl` key to select multiple alerts.
    
    ![image](images/1912.png)

6.  Click **Add**.

### Creating an Inherit Tag Action

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Control \> Explorer</span>.

2.  Click the **Actions** accordion, and click ![image](images/1847.png)
    (**Configuration**), ![image](images/1862.png) (**Add a new
    Action**).

3.  Type in a **Description** for the action.
    
    ![image](images/1913.png)

4.  Select **Inherit Parent Tag** from **Action Type**.

5.  Select the type of parent item to inherit from in **Parent Type**.

6.  Check all categories that you want inherited.
    
    ![image](images/1914.png)

7.  Click **Add**.

### Creating a CPU Reconfigure Action

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Control \> Explorer</span>.

2.  Click the **Actions** accordion, then click
    ![image](images/1847.png) (**Configuration**),
    ![image](images/1862.png) (**Add a new Action**).

3.  Type in a **Description** for the action.
    
    ![image](images/1915.png)

4.  Select **Reconfigure CPUs** from **Action Type**.

5.  Select a number from **Number of CPUs**.
    
    ![image](images/1916.png)

6.  Click **Add**.

### Creating a Memory Reconfigure Action

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Control \> Explorer</span>.

2.  Click the **Actions** accordion, then click
    ![image](images/1847.png) (**Configuration**),
    ![image](images/1862.png) (**Add a new Action**).

3.  Type in a **Description** for the action.
    
    ![image](images/1917.png)

4.  Select **Reconfigure Memory** from **Action Type**.

5.  Type in a new value for **Memory Size**.
    
    ![image](images/1918.png)

6.  Click **Add**.

### Creating a Remove Tag Action

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Control \> Explorer</span>.

2.  Click the **Actions** accordion, then click
    ![image](images/1847.png) (**Configuration**),
    ![image](images/1862.png) (**Add a new Action**).

3.  Type in a **Description** for the action.
    
    ![image](images/1920.png)

4.  Select **Remove Tags** from **Action Type**.

5.  Check the category of tags you want to remove.
    
    ![image](images/1919.png)

6.  Click **Add**.

### Creating an Ansible Playbook Run Action

Use this action to run an Ansible Playbook against your inventory. You
must first sync a playbook repository and add an Ansible Playbook
service catalog item.

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Control \> Explorer</span>.

2.  Click the **Actions** accordion, and click ![image](images/1847.png)
    (**Configuration**), ![image](images/1862.png) (**Add a new
    Action**).

3.  Type in a **Description** for the action.

4.  Select **Run Ansible Playbook** from **Action Type**.

5.  Select the playbook catalog item to run from **Playbook Catalog
    Item**.

6.  Check the inventory against which you run the Ansible playbook.
    
    1.  If **Specific Hosts** is selected, provide the IP or DNS names.

7.  Click **Add**.

### Creating an E-mail Action

To send emails from the ManageIQ server, you must have the notifier
server role enabled and have defined settings for SMTP email.

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Control \> Explorer</span>.

2.  Click the **Actions** accordion, then click
    ![image](images/1847.png) (**Configuration**),
    ![image](images/1862.png) (**Add a new Action**).

3.  Type in a **Description** for the action.
    
    ![image](images/1922.png)

4.  Select **Send an E-mail** from **Action Type**.

5.  Type in a **From E-mail Address** and **To E-mail Address**.
    
    ![image](images/1921.png)

6.  Click **Add**.

### Creating an SNMP Action

To send SNMP traps from the ManageIQ server, you must have the
`Notifier` server role and the SNMP daemons enabled.

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Control \> Explorer</span>.

2.  Click the **Actions** accordion, then click
    ![image](images/1847.png) (**Configuration**),
    ![image](images/1862.png) (**Add a new Action**).

3.  Enter a **Description** for the action.

4.  Select **Send an SNMP** Trap from **Action Type**.

5.  Type in the IP for the host to send the trap to, select the version
    of SNMP that you are using, and type in the Trap Object ID. Type in
    multiple hosts if you require the trap sent to multiple SNMP hosts.
    
      - If using SNMP V1, you are prompted for a Trap Number. Type 1, 2,
        or 3, based on the appropriate Suffix Number from table below.
    
      - If using SNMP V2, you are prompted for a Trap Object ID. Type
        info, warning, or critical, based on the table below.
        
        | Object ID             | Suffix Number Added to PEN | PEN with the Suffix Added |
        | --------------------- | -------------------------- | ------------------------- |
        | info                  | 1                          | 1.3.6.1.4.1.33482.1       |
        | warn, warning         | 2                          | 1.3.6.1.4.1.33482.2       |
        | crit, critical, error | 3                          | 1.3.6.1.4.1.33482.3       |
        

        Trap Object ID and Suffix Number

6.  Type in the variables that you require in your message.

7.  Click **Add**.

<div class="note">

When adding an SNMP action, be sure to set it as asynchronous.

</div>

### Creating a Set Custom Attribute Action

The custom attribute must already exist in vCenter. See vCenter
documentation for instructions. In this example, an attribute called
ManageIQ policy already exists.

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Control \> Explorer</span>.

2.  Click the **Actions** accordion, then click
    ![image](images/1847.png) (**Configuration**),
    ![image](images/1862.png) (**Add a new Action**).

3.  Type in a **Description** for the action.
    
    ![image](images/1926.png)

4.  Select **Set a Custom Attribute in vCenter** from **Action Type**.

5.  Type in the **Attribute Name** and **Value to Set**.
    
    ![image](images/1925.png)

6.  Click **Add**.

### Creating a Tag Action

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Control \> Explorer</span>.

2.  Click the **Actions** accordion, then click
    ![image](images/1847.png) (**Configuration**),
    ![image](images/1862.png) (**Add a new Action**).

3.  Type in a **Description** for the action.
    
    ![image](images/1928.png)

4.  Select **Tag** from **Action Type**.

5.  Click on the appropriate tag to apply from the list provided.
    
    ![image](images/1927.png)

6.  Click **Add**.

## Editing an Action

Edit an action to modify its properties. You cannot edit any of the
default actions supplied with ManageIQ. Only actions that you create can
be changed.

Note that when you view an action, you can see what policies it has been
assigned to.

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Control \> Explorer</span>.

2.  Click the **Actions** accordion, then click on the action you need
    to edit.

3.  Click ![image](images/1847.png) (**Configuration**),
    ![image](images/1851.png) (**Edit this Action**) on the detail view
    of the action.

4.  Make any required changes.

5.  Click **Save**.

The action is modified and can be added to a policy. If the action is
already party of a policy, the policy is automatically updated.

## Deleting an Action

Delete unused actions to keep your environment uncluttered. You cannot
delete default actions or actions that are currently assigned to a
policy. The delete button is unavailable if the action is in use.

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Control \> Explorer</span>.

2.  Click the **Actions** accordion, click on the action you need to
    remove.

3.  Click ![image](images/1847.png) (**Configuration**),
    ![image](images/1861.png) (**Delete this Action**) on the detail
    view of the tree.

4.  Click **OK** to confirm.

# Policy Profiles

Policy profiles are groups of policies that you can assign wholesale to
virtual machines, providers, clusters, hosts, resource pools,
replicators, pods, container nodes, and container images. Policy
profiles provide a framework for easily managing and assigning different
levels of security, across various types of cloud resources.

## Creating Policy Profiles

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Control \> Explorer</span>.

2.  Click on the **Policy Profiles** accordion, then click
    ![image](images/1847.png) (**Configuration**), then
    ![image](images/1862.png) (**Add a New Policy Profile**).

3.  In the **Basic Information** area, type in a unique description for
    the policy profile.
    
    ![image](images/1931.png)

4.  From **Available Policies** in the **Policy Selection** area select
    all the policies you need to apply to this policy profile. Use the
    `Ctrl` key to select multiple policies.
    
    ![image](images/1930.png)

5.  Click ![image](images/1876.png) to add the **Policies**.
    
    ![image](images/1929.png)

6.  Add to the **Notes** area if required.

7.  Click **Add**.

The policy profile is added. You can now assign the policy profile to
providers, hosts, and repositories. In addition, you can verify that the
virtual machine complies with the policy profile using the **Resultant
Set of Policy** feature.

## Deleting a Policy Profile

Remove policy profiles that you no longer need. This does not remove the
policies associated with the policy profile.

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Control \> Explorer</span>.

2.  Click on the **Policy Profile** accordion, then click the policy
    profile you want to remove.

3.  Click ![image](images/1847.png) (**Configuration**),
    ![image](images/1861.png) (**Remove this Policy Profile**).

4.  Click **OK** to confirm.

## Simulating Policy

Before assigning a policy profile to a virtual machine, use the ManageIQ
controls policy simulation feature to determine if a virtual machine
passes a policy profile.

### Simulating Policy Profiles on Virtual Machines

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Compute \> Infrastructure \>
    Virtual Machines</span>, select the virtual machines you need to
    evaluate.

2.  Click ![image](images/1941.png) (**Policy**), and then click
    ![image](images/1947.png) (**Policy Simulation**).

3.  From the **Select a Policy Profile to add** dropdown, click the
    policy you need to apply to the selected virtual machines.
    
    ![image](images/1948.png)

4.  The virtual machine thumbnail displays in the **Policy Simulation**
    area.
    
      - A check sign in the lower right quadrant of the virtual
        thumbnail shows that the virtual machine passes policy.
    
      - A minus sign in the lower right quadrant of the virtual
        thumbnail shows that the virtual machine fails policy.

5.  Click on a virtual machine in the **Policy Simulation** area to see
    its details.

6.  Expand a policy profile by clicking on it to see its member policies
    and the status of the conditions.
    
      - Check **Show out of scope items** to show all conditions,
        whether or not the virtual machine passes the scope part of the
        condition. Uncheck it to hide conditions where the scope part
        fails.
    
      - Next to **Show policies**, check **Successful** to show policies
        that are passed and check **Failed** to see the policies that
        have failed. The default is to show both.
    
      - Items in green text passed the condition.
    
      - Items in red text failed the condition.
    
      - Items in red italics failed the condition, but do not change the
        outcome of the scope.

If you evaluate multiple policy profiles, you can see both policy
profiles and a tree expanding down to their conditions.

## Assigning Policy Profiles

After creating your policy profiles, you are ready to evaluate and
assign them.

  - Assign a policy profile to a virtual machine to apply the policy
    profile to a specific virtual machine, independent of its related
    host, provider, or repository.

  - Assign a policy profile to a provider to apply the policy profile to
    all virtual machines, hosts, replicators, pods, container nodes or
    container images registered to that provider.

  - Assign a policy profile to a replicator to apply the policy profile
    to that specific replicator.

  - Assign a policy profile to a pod to apply the policy profile to that
    specific pod.

  - Assign a policy profile to a container node to apply the policy
    profile to that specific node.

  - Assign a policy profile to a container image to apply the policy
    profile to that specific image.

  - Assign a policy profile to a cluster to apply the policy profile to
    all virtual machines or hosts assigned to that cluster.

  - Assign a VM policy profile to a host to apply the policy profile to
    that specific host or all virtual machines registered to that host.

  - Assign a VM policy profile to a resource pool to apply the policy
    profile to all virtual machines or hosts assigned to that resource
    pool.

### Assigning Policy Profiles to an Infrastructure Provider

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Compute \> Infrastructure \>
    Providers</span>, verify the provider you need to assign the policy
    profiles to.

2.  Click ![image](images/1941.png) (**Policy**), and then click
    ![image](images/1851.png)(**Manage Policies**).

3.  From the **Select Policy Profiles** area, you can click on the
    triangle next to a desired policy profile to expand it and see its
    member policies.

4.  Check the policy profiles you require to apply to the provider. It
    turns blue to show its assignment state has changed.

5.  Click **Save**.

### Removing Policy Profiles from an Infrastructure Provider

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Compute \> Infrastructure \>
    Providers</span>, check the providers you want to remove the policy
    profile from.

2.  Click ![image](images/1941.png) (**Policy**), and then click
    ![image](images/1851.png)(**Manage Policies**).

3.  Uncheck the policy profile you need to remove. It turns blue to show
    that its assignment state has changed.

4.  Click **Save**.

### Assigning Policy Profiles to a Cluster

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Compute \> Infrastructure \>
    Clusters</span>, check the clusters you need to assign policy
    profiles to.

2.  Click ![image](images/1941.png) (**Policy**), and then click
    ![image](images/1851.png)(**Manage Policies**).

3.  From the **Select Policy Profiles** area, you can click on the
    triangle next to a desired policy profile to expand it and see its
    member policies.

4.  Check the policy profiles you need to apply to the cluster. It turns
    blue to show its assignment state has changed.

5.  Click **Save**.

### Removing Policy Profiles from a Cluster

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Compute \> Infrastructure \>
    Clusters</span>, check the clusters you need to remove the policy
    profiles from.

2.  Click ![image](images/1941.png) (**Policy**), and then click
    ![image](images/1851.png)(**Manage Policies**).

3.  From the **Select Policy Profiles** area, you can click on the
    triangle next to a desired policy profile to expand it and see its
    member policies.

4.  Uncheck the policy profiles you need to remove. It turns blue to
    show that its assignment state has changed.

5.  Click **Save**.

### Assigning Policy Profiles to a Host

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Compute \> Infrastructure \>
    Hosts</span>, check the hosts you need to assign policy profiles to.

2.  Click ![image](images/1941.png) (**Policy**), and then click
    ![image](images/1851.png)(**Manage Policies**).

3.  From the **Select Policy Profiles** area, click on the triangle next
    to a desired policy profile to expand it and see its member
    policies.

4.  Check the policy profiles you need to apply to the host. It turns
    blue to show its assignment state has changed.

5.  Click **Save**.

### Removing Policy Profiles from a Host

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Compute \> Infrastructure \>
    Hosts</span>, check the hosts you need to remove the policy profiles
    from.

2.  Click ![image](images/1941.png) (**Policy**), and then click
    ![image](images/1851.png)(**Manage Policies**).

3.  Uncheck the policy profiles you need to remove. It turns blue to
    show that its assignment state has changed.

4.  Click **Save**.

### Assigning Policy Profiles to a Virtual Machine

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Compute \> Infrastructure \>
    Virtual Machines</span>, check the virtual machines you need to
    assign policy profiles to.

2.  Click ![image](images/1941.png) (**Policy**), and then click
    ![image](images/1851.png)(**Manage Policies**).

3.  From the **Select Policy Profiles** area, click on the triangle next
    to a desired policy profile to expand it and see its member
    policies.

4.  Check the policy profiles you need to apply to the host. It will
    turn blue to show that its assignment state has changed.

5.  Click **Save**.

### Removing Policy Profiles from a Virtual Machine

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Compute \> Infrastructure \>
    Virtual Machines</span>, check the virtual machines you want to
    remove the policy profile from.

2.  Click ![image](images/1941.png) (**Policy**), and then click
    ![image](images/1851.png)(**Manage Policies**).

3.  Uncheck the policy profile you need to remove. It turns blue to show
    that its assignment state has changed.

4.  Click **Save**.

### Assigning Policy Profiles to a Resource Pool

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Compute \> Infrastructure \>
    Resource Pools</span>, check the resource pools you need to assign
    policy profiles to.

2.  Click ![image](images/1941.png) (**Policy**), and then click
    ![image](images/1851.png)(**Manage Policies**).

3.  From the **Select Policy Profiles** area, click on the triangle next
    to a desired policy profile to expand it and see its member
    policies.

4.  Click the policy profiles you need to apply to the resource pools.
    It turns blue to show its assignment state has changed.

5.  Click **Save**.

### Removing Policy Profiles from a Resource Pool

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Compute \> Infrastructure \>
    Resource Pools</span>, check the resource pools you need to remove
    the policy profiles from.

2.  Click ![image](images/1941.png) (**Policy**), and then click
    ![image](images/1851.png)(**Manage Policies**).

3.  From the **Select Policy Profiles** area, click on the triangle next
    to a desired policy profile to expand it and see its member
    policies.

4.  Uncheck the policy profiles you need to remove. It turns blue to
    show that its assignment state has changed.

5.  Click **Save**.

### Assigning Policy Profiles to a Cloud Provider

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Compute \> Clouds \>
    Providers</span> and check the provider you need to assign the
    policy profiles to.

2.  Click ![image](images/1941.png) (**Policy**), and then click
    ![image](images/1851.png)(**Manage Policies**).

3.  From the **Select Policy Profiles** area, click on the triangle next
    to a desired policy profile to expand it and see its member
    policies.

4.  Check the policy profiles you need to apply to the provider. The
    ones that are different from the previous setting will show in blue.

5.  Click **Save**.

### Removing Policy Profiles from a Cloud Provider

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Compute \> Clouds \>
    Providers</span>, check the providers you need to remove the policy
    profile from.

2.  Click ![image](images/1941.png) (**Policy**), and then click
    ![image](images/1851.png)(**Manage Policies**).

3.  From the **Select Policy Profiles** area, click on the triangle next
    to a desired policy profile to expand it and see its member
    policies.

4.  Uncheck the policy profile you need to remove. It turns blue to show
    that its assignment state has changed.

5.  Click **Save**.

### Assigning Policy Profiles to a Network Provider

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Networks \> Providers</span>,
    check the network provider you need to assign the policy profiles
    to.

2.  Click ![image](images/1941.png) (**Policy**), and then click
    ![image](images/1851.png)(**Manage Policies**).

3.  From the **Select Policy Profiles** area, click on the triangle next
    to a desired policy profile to expand it and see its member
    policies.

4.  Check the policy profiles you need to apply to the provider. The
    ones that are different from the previous setting will show in blue.

5.  Click **Save**.

### Removing Policy Profiles from a Network Provider

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Networks \> Providers</span>,
    check the network providers you need to remove the policy profiles
    from.

2.  Click ![image](images/1941.png) (**Policy**), and then click
    ![image](images/1851.png)(**Manage Policies**).

3.  From the **Select Policy Profiles** area, click on the triangle next
    to a desired policy profile to expand it and see its member
    policies.

4.  Uncheck the policy profile you need to remove. It turns blue to show
    that its assignment state has changed.

5.  Click **Save**.

### Assigning Policy Profiles to a Container Provider

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Compute \> Containers \>
    Providers</span> and select the provider you need to assign the
    policy profiles to.

2.  Click ![image](images/1941.png) (**Policy**), and then click
    ![image](images/1851.png)(**Manage Policies**).

3.  From the **Select Policy Profiles** area, click on the triangle next
    to a desired policy profile to expand and see its member policies.

4.  Select the policy profiles you need to apply to the provider. It
    will turn blue to show the selection.

5.  Click **Save**.

### Removing Policy Profiles from a Container Provider

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Compute \> Containers \>
    Providers</span>, select the container providers you need to remove
    the policy profiles from.

2.  Click ![image](images/1941.png) (**Policy**), and then click
    ![image](images/1851.png)(**Manage Policies**).

3.  From the **Select Policy Profiles** area, click on the triangle next
    to a desired policy profile to expand it and see its member
    policies.

4.  Uncheck the policy profile you need to remove. It turns blue to show
    that its assignment state has changed.

5.  Click **Save**.

### Assigning Policy Profiles to a Replicator

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Compute \> Containers \>
    Replicators</span> and select the replicator you need to assign the
    policy profiles to.

2.  Click ![image](images/1941.png) (**Policy**), and then click
    ![image](images/1851.png)(**Manage Policies**).

3.  From the **Select Policy Profiles** area, click on the triangle next
    to a desired policy profile to expand and see its member policies.

4.  Select the policy profiles you need to apply to the replicator. It
    will turn blue to show the selection.

5.  Click **Save**.

### Removing Policy Profiles from a Replicator

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Compute \> Containers \>
    Replicators</span>, select the replicators you need to remove the
    policy profiles from.

2.  Click ![image](images/1941.png) (**Policy**), and then click
    ![image](images/1851.png)(**Manage Policies**).

3.  From the **Select Policy Profiles** area, click on the triangle next
    to a desired policy profile to expand it and see its member
    policies.

4.  Uncheck the policy profile you need to remove. It turns blue to show
    that its assignment state has changed.

5.  Click **Save**.

### Assigning Policy Profiles to a Pod

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Compute \> Containers \>
    Pods</span> and select the pod you need to assign the policy
    profiles to.

2.  Click ![image](images/1941.png) (**Policy**), and then click
    ![image](images/1851.png)(**Manage Policies**).

3.  From the **Select Policy Profiles** area, click on the triangle next
    to a desired policy profile to expand and see its member policies.

4.  Select the policy profiles you need to apply to the pod. It will
    turn blue to show the selection.

5.  Click **Save**.

### Removing Policy Profiles from a Pod

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Compute \> Containers \>
    Pods</span>, select the pods you need to remove the policy profiles
    from.

2.  Click ![image](images/1941.png) (**Policy**), and then click
    ![image](images/1851.png)(**Manage Policies**).

3.  From the **Select Policy Profiles** area, click on the triangle next
    to a desired policy profile to expand it and see its member
    policies.

4.  Uncheck the policy profile you need to remove. It turns blue to show
    that its assignment state has changed.

5.  Click **Save**.

### Assigning Policy Profiles to a Container Node

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Compute \> Containers \>
    Container Nodes</span> and select the container node you need to
    assign the policy profiles to.

2.  Click ![image](images/1941.png) (**Policy**), and then click
    ![image](images/1851.png)(**Manage Policies**).

3.  From the **Select Policy Profiles** area, click on the triangle next
    to a desired policy profile to expand and see its member policies.

4.  Select the policy profiles you need to apply to the node. It will
    turn blue to show the selection.

5.  Click **Save**.

### Removing Policy Profiles from a Container Node

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Compute \> Containers \>
    Container Nodes</span>, select the container nodes you need to
    remove the policy profiles from.

2.  Click ![image](images/1941.png) (**Policy**), and then click
    ![image](images/1851.png)(**Manage Policies**).

3.  From the **Select Policy Profiles** area, click on the triangle next
    to a desired policy profile to expand it and see its member
    policies.

4.  Uncheck the policy profile you need to remove. It turns blue to show
    that its assignment state has changed.

5.  Click **Save**.

### Assigning Policy Profiles to a Container Image

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Compute \> Containers \>
    Container Images</span> and select the image you need to assign the
    policy profiles to.

2.  Click ![image](images/1941.png) (**Policy**), and then click
    ![image](images/1851.png)(**Manage Policies**).

3.  From the **Select Policy Profiles** area, click on the triangle next
    to a desired policy profile to expand and see its member policies.

4.  Select the policy profiles you need to apply to the image. It will
    turn blue to show the selection.

5.  Click **Save**.

### Removing Policy Profiles from a Container Image

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Compute \> Containers \>
    Container Images</span>, select the container images you need to
    remove the policy profiles from.

2.  Click ![image](images/1941.png) (**Policy**), and then click
    ![image](images/1851.png)(**Manage Policies**).

3.  From the **Select Policy Profiles** area, click on the triangle next
    to a desired policy profile to expand it and see its member
    policies.

4.  Uncheck the policy profile you need to remove. It turns blue to show
    that its assignment state has changed.

5.  Click **Save**.

### Assigning Policy Profiles to an Instance

1.  From <span class="menuchoice">Compute \> Clouds \> Instances</span>,
    check the instances you want to assign policy profiles to.

2.  Click ![image](images/1941.png) (**Policy**), and then click
    ![image](images/1851.png)(**Manage Policies**).

3.  From the **Select Policy Profiles** area, click on the triangle next
    to a desired policy profile to expand it and see its member
    policies.

4.  Check the policy profiles you want to apply to the instances. It
    turns blue to show its assignment state has changed.

5.  Click **Save**.

### Removing Policy Profiles from an Instance

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Compute \> Clouds \>
    Instances</span>, check the instances you need to remove the policy
    profile from.

2.  Click ![image](images/1941.png) (**Policy**), and then click
    ![image](images/1851.png)(**Manage Policies**).

3.  From the **Select Policy Profiles** area, click on the triangle next
    to a desired policy profile to expand it and see its member
    policies.

4.  Uncheck the policy profile you need to remove. It turns blue to show
    that its assignment state has changed.

5.  Click **Save**.

## Disabling a Policy in a Policy Profile

You can disable one policy in a profile without removing it from the
policy, perhaps for trouble shooting purposes or because the policy is
not required temporarily.

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Control \> Explorer</span>.

2.  Click the **Policies** accordion, then navigate to the policy that
    you need to disable or navigate to the policy from the policy
    profile.

3.  Click ![image](images/1847.png) (**Configuration**),
    ![image](images/1851.png) (**Edit Basic Info, Scope, Notes**).

4.  Uncheck **Active**.

5.  Click **Save**.

## Viewing Policy Simulation - Resultant Set of Policy (RSOP)

After the Policy Profiles are assigned, you can see the final result of
the resolution of all policies based on which Events occur. Based on the
result, you can adjust your Policies. To view RSOP, go to the control
area in the ManageIQ console.

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Control \> Simulation</span>.

2.  From the **Event Selection** area, select a type of event, and then
    the specific event you need the result for.
    
    ![image](images/1963.png)

3.  From the **VM Selection** area, select the virtual machine from a
    provider, cluster, host, or a single virtual machine.
    
    ![image](images/1962.png)

4.  Click **Submit**.

## Exporting and Importing Analysis Profiles

ManageIQ SmartState analysis requires an analysis profile to select the
files to be scanned by a compliance policy. ManageIQ has the ability to
export and import SmartState analysis profiles via the command line
using rake commands. As a result, approved configurations can be easily
imported into customer environments, without having to manually recreate
the profile through the user interface.

1.  Change to the `vmdb` directory:
    
        cd /var/www/miq/vmdb

2.  Create an export directory:
    
        $ mkdir exports

3.  To export an analysis profile, run:
    
        bundle exec rake evm:export:scan_profiles -- --directory exports

4.  To import the default analysis profile, run:
    
        bundle exec rake evm:import:scan_profiles -- --source exports/host_default.yaml
    
    <div class="note">
    
    If the default profile already exists in ManageIQ, the new profile
    does not overwrite the old profile. Instead, it duplicates the file
    items in the default profile.
    
    </div>

# Appendix

# Events

Events are triggers that cause a condition to be tested. Control
provides several Events, that can be divided into functional types.
Events cannot be modified.

| Category                  | Description                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| ------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Container Operation       | Events related to container analysis.                                                                                                                                                                |
| Datastore Operation       | Events related to datastore analysis.                                                                                                                                                                |
| Authentication Validation | Events related to credential validation for hosts and providers.                                                                                                                                     |
| Company Tag               | Events related to assigning and removing company tags from an infrastructure object.                                                                                                                 |
| Compliance                | Events related to checking compliance policies.                                                                                                                                                      |
| Host Operation            | Events related to the connection state of a host and status of a SmartState Analysis on a host.                                                                                                      |
| Orchestration Lifecycle   | Events related to orchestration lifecycle, such as retirement.                                                                                                                                       |
| Physical Server Operation | Events related to the connection state of a physical server.                                                                                                                                         |
| VM Configuration          | Events associated with a change in configuration of a virtual machine. These include, but are not limited to, clone, create, template create, and settings change.                                   |
| VM Lifecycle              | Events such as virtual machine discovery, provisioning, and virtual machine retirement.                                                                                                              |
| VM Operation              | Events associated with power states or locations of virtual machines and virtual desktop machines. These include, but are not limited to, power off, power on, reset, resume, shutdown, and suspend. |
| Service Lifecycle         | Events associated with service lifecycle. These include, but are not limited to, provisioning completed, start request, started, stop request, stopped, retirement warning, and retired.             |

Event Types

Each type has a set of events that you can select to trigger the
checking of a condition.

| Event                                | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| ------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Container Image Analysis Request     | Check the condition when an analysis of a container image is requested.                                                                                                                                                         |
| Container Image Analysis Complete    | Check the condition when an analysis of a container image completes.                                                                                                                                                            |
| Container Image Discovered           | Check the condition when a new container image is discovered.                                                                                                                                                                   |
| Container Image Compliance Check     | Check the condition when a compliance check is performed on an image.                                                                                                                                                           |
| Container Image Compliance Passed    | Check the condition when an image passes a compliance check.                                                                                                                                                                    |
| Container Image Compliance Failed    | Check the condition when an image fails a compliance check.                                                                                                                                                                     |
| Container Node Failed Mount          | Check the condition when a node fails to mount a volume for a pod.                                                                                                                                                              |
| Container Node Invalid Disk Capacity | Check the condition when a nodeâ€™s disk capacity is invalid.                                                                                                                                                                     |
| Container Node Not Ready             | Check the condition when a node is not ready.                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| Container Node Not Schedulable       | Check the condition when a node is not schedulable.                                                                                                                                                                             |
| Container Node Ready                 | Check the condition when a node is ready.                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| Container Node Schedulable           | Check the condition when a node is schedulable.                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| Container Node Rebooted              | Check the condition when a node reboots.                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| Container Node Compliance Check      | Check the condition when a compliance check is performed on a node.                                                                                                                                                             |
| Container Node Compliance Passed     | Check the condition when a node passes a compliance check.                                                                                                                                                                      |
| Container Node Compliance Failed     | Check the condition when a node fails a compliance check.                                                                                                                                                                       |
| Pod Compliance Check                 | Check the condition when a compliance check is performed on a pod.                                                                                                                                                              |
| Pod Compliance Passed                | Check the condition when a pod passes a compliance check.                                                                                                                                                                       |
| Pod Compliance Failed                | Check the condition when a pod fails a compliance check.                                                                                                                                                                        |
| Pod Container Created                | Check the condition when a container is created in a pod.                                                                                                                                                                       |
| Pod Container Failed                 | Check the condition when a container in a pod fails.                                                                                                                                                                            |
| Pod Container Killing                | Check the condition when a container in a pod is killed.                                                                                                                                                                        |
| Pod Container Started                | Check the condition when a container in a pod is started.                                                                                                                                                                       |
| Pod Container Stopped                | Check the condition when a container in a pod is stopped.                                                                                                                                                                       |
| Pod Container Unhealthy              | Check the condition when a container in a pod is unhealthy.                                                                                                                                                                     |
| Pod Deadline Exceeded                | Check the condition when a pod with specified deadline exceeds it and is terminated.                                                                                                                                            |
| Pod Failed Scheduling                | Check the condition when scheduling a pod fails.                                                                                                                                                                                |
| Pod Failed Sync                      | Check the condition when getting a pod to its desired state fails (a frequent reason is failure to download the image).                                                                                                         |
| Pod Failed Validation                | Check the condition when a pod validation fails.                                                                                                                                                                                |
| Pod hostPort Conflict                | Check the condition when a pod hostPort conflict occurs.                                                                                                                                                                        |
| Pod Insufficient Free CPU            | Check the condition when there is an insufficient free CPU in a pod.                                                                                                                                                            |
| Pod Insufficient Free Memory         | Check the condition when there is an insufficient free memory in a pod.                                                                                                                                                         |
| Pod nodeSelector Mismatching         | Check the condition when a pod nodeSelector mismatches.                                                                                                                                                                         |
| Pod Out of Disk                      | Check the condition when a pod is out of disk space.                                                                                                                                                                            |
| Pod Scheduled                        | Check the condition when a pod is scheduled onto the node.                                                                                                                                                                      |
| Replicator Failed Creating Pod       | Check the condition when a replicator fails creating a pod.                                                                                                                                                                     |
| Replicator Successfully Created Pod  | Check the condition when a replicator successfully creates a pod.                                                                                                                                                               |
| Replicator Compliance Check          | Check the condition when a compliance check is performed on a replicator.                                                                                                                                                       |
| Replicator Compliance Passed         | Check the condition when a replicator passes a compliance check.                                                                                                                                                                |
| Replicator Compliance Failed         | Check the condition when a replicator fails a compliance check.                                                                                                                                                                 |
| Database Failover Executed           | Check the condition when a database failover is executed.                                                                                                                                                                       |
| Datastore Analysis Complete          | Check the condition when a SmartState Analysis of a datastore completes.                                                                                                                                                        |
| Datastore Analysis Request           | Check the condition when a SmartState Analysis for a datastore is requested from the user interface.                                                                                                                            |
| Host Added to Cluster                | Check the condition when a host is added to a cluster.                                                                                                                                                                          |
| Host Analysis Complete               | Check the condition when a SmartState Analysis of host completes.                                                                                                                                                               |
| Host Analysis Request                | Check the condition when a SmartState Analysis is requested from the ManageIQ console.                                                                                                                                          |
| Host Auth Changed                    | Check the condition when host authentication credentials are changed in the ManageIQ console.                                                                                                                                   |
| Host Auth Error                      | Check the condition if there is any other error connecting to the host such as ssh/vim handshaking problems, timeouts, or any other uncategorized error.                                                                        |
| Host Auth Incomplete Credentials     | Check the condition if host authentication credentials are not complete in the user interface.                                                                                                                                  |
| Host Auth Invalid                    | Check the condition if ManageIQ is able to communicate with the host and the credentials fail.                                                                                                                                  |
| Host Auth Unreachable                | Check the condition if ManageIQ is unable to communicate with the host.                                                                                                                                                         |
| Host Auth Valid                      | Check the condition when the host authentication credentials entered in the ManageIQ console are valid.                                                                                                                         |
| Host C & U Processing Complete       | Check the condition when the processing of capacity and utilization data has finished.                                                                                                                                          |
| Host Compliance Check                | Check the condition when a compliance check is performed on a host.                                                                                                                                                             |
| Host Compliance Failed               | Check the condition when a host fails a compliance check.                                                                                                                                                                       |
| Host Compliance Passed               | Check the condition when a host passes a compliance check.                                                                                                                                                                      |
| Host Connect                         | Check the condition when a host connects to a provider.                                                                                                                                                                         |
| Host Disconnect                      | Check the condition when a host disconnects from a provider.                                                                                                                                                                    |
| Host Maintenance Enter Request       | Check the condition when a host requests to enter maintenance mode.                                                                                                                                                             |
| Host Maintenance Exit Request        | Check the condition when a host requests to exit maintenance mode.                                                                                                                                                              |
| Host Provision Complete              | Check the condition when the host provision is complete.                                                                                                                                                                        |
| Host Reboot Request                  | Check the condition when someone tries to reboot a host from the ManageIQ console.                                                                                                                                              |
| Host Removed from Cluster            | Check the condition when a host is removed from a cluster.                                                                                                                                                                      |
| Host Reset Request                   | Check the condition when a host is restarted from the ManageIQ console.                                                                                                                                                         |
| Host Shutdown Request                | Check the condition when a host is shut down from the ManageIQ console.                                                                                                                                                         |
| Host Standby Request                 | Check the condition when someone tries to put the operating system of a host in standby from the ManageIQ console.                                                                                                              |
| Host Start Request                   | Check the condition when a host is started from the ManageIQ console.                                                                                                                                                           |
| Host Stop Request                    | Check the condition when a host is requested to stop from the ManageIQ console.                                                                                                                                                 |
| Host Vmotion Disable Request         | Check the condition when a request to disable vMotion on a host is created from the ManageIQ console.                                                                                                                           |
| Host Vmotion Enable Request          | Check the condition when a request to enable vMotion on a host is created from the ManageIQ console.                                                                                                                            |
| Orchestration Stack Retire Request   | Check the condition when an orchestration stack retirement request is created from ManageIQ.                                                                                                                                    |
| Physical Server Reset                | Check the condition when a physical server is restarted from the ManageIQ console.                                                                                                                                              |
| Physical Server Shutdown             | Check the condition when a physical server is shut down from the ManageIQ console.                                                                                                                                              |
| Physical Server Start                | Check the condition when a physical server is started from the ManageIQ console.                                                                                                                                                |
| Provider Auth Changed                | *For use only with ManageIQ automate, for future use in policies.* Check the condition when provider authentication credentials are changed in the user interface.                                                              |
| Provider Auth Error                  | *For use only with ManageIQ automate, for future use in policies.* Check the condition if there is any other error connecting to the provider such as ssh/vim handshaking problems, timeouts, or any other uncategorized error. |
| Provider Auth Incomplete Credentials | *For use only with ManageIQ automate, for future use in policies.* Check the condition if provider authentication credentials are not complete in the ManageIQ console.                                                         |
| Provider Auth Invalid                | *For use only with ManageIQ automate, for future use in policies.* Check the condition if ManageIQ is able to communicate with the provider and the credentials fail.                                                           |
| Provider Auth Unreachable            | *For use only with ManageIQ automate, for future use in policies.* Check the condition if ManageIQ is unable to communicate with the provider.                                                                                  |
| Provider Auth Valid                  | *For use only with ManageIQ automate, for future use in policies.* Check the condition when the provider authentication credentials entered in the user interface are valid.                                                    |
| Provider Compliance Check            | Check the condition when a compliance check is performed on a provider.                                                                                                                                                         |
| Provider Compliance Failed           | Check the condition when a provider fails a compliance check.                                                                                                                                                                   |
| Provider Compliance Passed           | Check the condition when a provider passes a compliance check.                                                                                                                                                                  |
| Service Provision Complete           | Check the condition when the service provision is complete.                                                                                                                                                                     |
| Service Retire Request               | Check the condition when a service retirement request is created from ManageIQ.                                                                                                                                                 |
| Service Retired                      | Check the condition when the service has been retired.                                                                                                                                                                          |
| Service Retirement Warning           | Check the condition when the service is about to retire.                                                                                                                                                                        |
| Service Start Request                | Check the condition when the service has been requested to start.                                                                                                                                                               |
| Service Started                      | Check the condition when the service has started.                                                                                                                                                                               |
| Service Stop Request                 | Check the condition when the service has been requested to stop.                                                                                                                                                                |
| Service Stopped                      | Check the condition when the service has stopped.                                                                                                                                                                               |
| Tag Complete                         | Check the condition after a company tag is assigned.                                                                                                                                                                            |
| Tag Parent Cluster Complete          | Check the condition after a company tag is assigned to a virtual machineâ€™s parent cluster.                                                                                                                                      |
| Tag Parent Datastore Complete        | Check the condition after a company tag is assigned to a virtual machineâ€™s parent datastore.                                                                                                                                    |
| Tag Parent Host Complete             | Check the condition after a company tag is assigned to a virtual machineâ€™s parent host.                                                                                                                                         |
| Tag Parent Resource Pool Complete    | Check the condition after a company tag is assigned to a virtual machineâ€™s parent resource pool.                                                                                                                                |
| Tag Request                          | Check the condition when assignment of a company tag is attempted.                                                                                                                                                              |
| Un-Tag Complete                      | Check the condition when a company tag is removed.                                                                                                                                                                              |
| Un-Tag Parent Cluster Complete       | Check the condition after a company tag is removed from a virtual machineâ€™s parent cluster.                                                                                                                                     |
| Un-Tag Parent Datastore Complete     | Check the condition after a company tag is removed from a virtual machineâ€™s parent datastore.                                                                                                                                   |
| Un-Tag Parent Host Complete          | Check the condition after a company tag is removed from a virtual machineâ€™s parent host.                                                                                                                                        |
| Un-Tag Parent Resource Pool Complete | Check the condition after a company tag is removed from a virtual machineâ€™s parent resource pool.                                                                                                                               |
| Un-Tag Request                       | Check the condition when an attempt is made to remove a company tag.                                                                                                                                                            |
| VDI Connecting to Session            | Check the condition when a VDI session is started.                                                                                                                                                                              |
| VDI Disconnected from Session        | Check the condition when a VDI session is disconnected.                                                                                                                                                                         |
| VDI Login Session                    | Check the condition when a user logs on to a VDI session.                                                                                                                                                                       |
| VDI Logoff Session                   | Check the condition when a user logs off from a VDI session.                                                                                                                                                                    |
| VM Analysis Complete                 | Check the condition when a SmartState Analysis of virtual machine completes.                                                                                                                                                    |
| VM Analysis Failure                  | Check the condition when a SmartState Analysis of virtual machine fails.                                                                                                                                                        |
| VM Analysis Request                  | Check the condition when a SmartState Analysis is requested from the ManageIQ console.                                                                                                                                          |
| VM Analysis Start                    | Check the condition when a SmartState Analysis of virtual machine is started.                                                                                                                                                   |
| VM C & U Processing Complete         | Check the condition when the processing of capacity and utilization data has finished.                                                                                                                                          |
| VM Clone Complete                    | Check the condition when a virtual machine is cloned.                                                                                                                                                                           |
| VM Clone Start                       | Check the condition when a virtual machine clone is started.                                                                                                                                                                    |
| VM Compliance Check                  | Check the condition when a compliance check is performed on a virtual machine.                                                                                                                                                  |
| VM Compliance Failed                 | Check the condition when a virtual machine fails a compliance check.                                                                                                                                                            |
| VM Compliance Passed                 | Check the condition when a virtual machine passes a compliance check.                                                                                                                                                           |
| VM Create Complete                   | Check the condition when a virtual machine is created.                                                                                                                                                                          |
| VM Delete (from Disk)                | Check the condition when a disk on a virtual machine is deleted.                                                                                                                                                                |
| VM Delete (from Disk) Request        | Check the condition when someone tries to delete a virtual machine from disk from the user interface.                                                                                                                           |
| VM Guest Reboot                      | Check the condition when a virtual machine is rebooted.                                                                                                                                                                         |
| VM Guest Reboot Request              | Check the condition when someone tries to reboot a virtual machine from the ManageIQ console.                                                                                                                                   |
| VM Guest Shutdown                    | Check the condition when the operating system of a virtual machine shuts down.                                                                                                                                                  |
| VM Guest Shutdown Request            | Check the condition when someone tries to shut down the operating system of a virtual machine from the user interface.                                                                                                          |
| VM Live Migration (VMOTION)          | Check the condition when a vMotion migration is performed.                                                                                                                                                                      |
| VM Pause                             | Check the condition when a virtual machine is paused.                                                                                                                                                                           |
| VM Pause Request                     | Check the condition when someone tries to pause a virtual machine from the ManageIQ console.                                                                                                                                    |
| VM Power Off                         | Check the condition when a virtual machine is turned off.                                                                                                                                                                       |
| VM Power Off Request                 | Check the condition when someone tries to power off a virtual machine from the ManageIQ console.                                                                                                                                |
| VM Power On                          | Check the condition when a virtual machine is turned on.                                                                                                                                                                        |
| VM Power On Request                  | Check the condition when someone tries to turn on a virtual machine from the ManageIQ console.                                                                                                                                  |
| VM Provision Complete                | Check the condition when a virtual machine is provisioned.                                                                                                                                                                      |
| VM Remote Console Connected          | Check the condition when a virtual machine is connected to a remote console.                                                                                                                                                    |
| VM Removal from Inventory            | Check the condition when a virtual machine is unregistered.                                                                                                                                                                     |
| VM Removal from Inventory Request    | Check the condition when a request is sent from the ManageIQ console to unregister a virtual machine.                                                                                                                           |
| VM Renamed Event                     | Check the condition when a virtual machine is renamed on its provider.                                                                                                                                                          |
| VM Reset                             | Check the condition when a virtual machine is restarted.                                                                                                                                                                        |
| VM Reset Request                     | Check the condition when a virtual machine is restarted from the ManageIQ console.                                                                                                                                              |
| VM Resume                            | Check the condition when a virtual machine is resumed.                                                                                                                                                                          |
| VM Retire Request                    | Check the condition when a virtual machine retirement request is created from ManageIQ.                                                                                                                                         |
| VM Retired                           | Check the condition when a virtual machine is retired.                                                                                                                                                                          |
| VM Retirement Warning                | Check the condition when a warning threshold is reached for retirement.                                                                                                                                                         |
| VM Settings Change                   | Check the condition when the settings of virtual machine are changed.                                                                                                                                                           |
| VM Shelve                            | Check the condition when a virtual machine is shelved.                                                                                                                                                                          |
| VM Shelve Offload                    | Check the condition when a virtual machine is removed and deleted with the shelve offload operation.                                                                                                                            |
| VM Shelve Offload Request            | Check the condition when a shelve offload request is created from ManageIQ for a virtual machine.                                                                                                                               |
| VM Shelve Request                    | Check the condition when a virtual machine shelve request is created from ManageIQ.                                                                                                                                             |
| VM Snapshot Create Complete          | Check the condition when a snapshot is completed.                                                                                                                                                                               |
| VM Snapshot Create Request           | Check the condition when someone tries to create a snapshot of a virtual machine from the user interface.                                                                                                                       |
| VM Snapshot Create Started           | Check the condition when a snapshot creation is started.                                                                                                                                                                        |
| VM Standby of Guest                  | Check the condition when the operating system of a virtual machine goes to standby.                                                                                                                                             |
| VM Standby of Guest Request          | Check the condition when someone tries to put the operating system of a virtual machine in standby from the ManageIQ console.                                                                                                   |
| VM Suspend                           | Check the condition when a virtual machine is suspended.                                                                                                                                                                        |
| VM Suspend Request                   | Check the condition when someone tries to suspend a virtual machine from the ManageIQ console.                                                                                                                                  |
| VM Template Create Complete          | Check the condition when a virtual machine template is created.                                                                                                                                                                 |

Events and Descriptions

# OpenSCAP Integration

OpenSCAP is an auditing tool used for hardening the security of your
enterprise. This tool is built upon the knowledge and resources provided
by the many experienced security experts active in the upstream OpenSCAP
ecosystem. For more information about OpenSCAP, see
<https://www.open-scap.org/>.

ManageIQ now supports OpenSCAP. By default, ManageIQ provides a built-in
*OpenSCAP policy profile* which provides policies for managing the
security of your *container images*.

These policies ensure that new container images from any provider within
ManageIQ are scanned against the latest CVE content from Red Hat. See
Red Hatâ€™s [Security Data](https://www.redhat.com/security/data/metrics/)
page for more details about this content. In particular, the [SCAP
source data stream files
index](https://www.redhat.com/security/data/metrics/ds) provides
examples of security advisories used by the built-in OpenSCAP policy
profile.

Each of these security advisories have a severity ranging from **Low**
to **Critical**. With the built-in OpenSCAP policy profile, any image
that fails a security check against an advisory with at least a **High**
severity is marked as non-compliant.

The built-in OpenSCAP policy profile cannot be edited. You can, however,
edit copies of its policies and assign those copies to a new profile.
See [Creating a Customized OpenSCAP Policy Profile](#openscap-custom)
for more information.

## Assigning the Built-In OpenSCAP Policy Profile

The OpenSCAP policy profile included with ManageIQ is not automatically
assigned. You still need to assign it to a container provider. The
method for doing so is similar to that of any normal policy profile (as
in [Assigning Policy Profiles](#profile-assign)):

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Compute \> Containers \>
    Providers</span>, check the providers you need to assign the
    OpenSCAP policy profile to.

2.  Click ![image](images/1941.png) (**Policy**), and then click
    ![image](images/1851.png)(**Manage Policies**).

3.  From the **Select Policy Profiles** area, click on the triangle next
    to **OpenSCAP profile** to expand it and see its member policies.

4.  Check **OpenSCAP profile**. It turns blue to show its assignment
    state has changed.

5.  Click **Save**.

## Scheduling an OpenSCAP Compliance Check on Container Images

Once you have assigned the built-in OpenSCAP policy profile to a
container provider, you can schedule a compliance check against the
policy profile. The method for doing is similar to that of scheduling a
normal compliance check ([Scheduling a Compliance
Check](#compliance-schedule)):

1.  Click ![config gear](images/config-gear.png) (**Configuration**).

2.  Click the **Settings** accordion, and select **Schedules**.

3.  Click ![image](images/1847.png) (**Configuration**),
    ![image](images/1862.png) (**Add a new Schedule**).

4.  In the **Adding a new Schedule** area, type in a name and
    description for the schedule.
    
    ![image](images/1940.png)

5.  Select **Active** if you want to enable this scan.

6.  From the **Action** dropdown, select **Container Image Analysis**.

7.  From the **Filter** dropdown, select **All Container Images for
    Containers Provider**, a new dropdown will appear. From this
    dropdown, choose the provider where you enabled the OpenSCAP policy
    profile.

8.  From the **Run** dropdown, select how often you want the analysis to
    run. Your options after that depend on which run option you choose.
    
    ![image](images/1938.png)
    
      - Select **Once** to have the analysis run just one time.
    
      - Select **Daily** to run the analysis on a daily basis. You are
        prompted to select how many days you want between each analysis.
    
      - Select **Hourly** to run the analysis hourly. You are prompted
        to select how many hours you want between each analysis.

9.  Select the time zone for the schedule.

10. Type or select a date to begin the schedule in **Starting Date**.

11. Select a starting time based on a 24-hour clock in the selected time
    zone.

12. Click **Add**.

# Creating a Customized OpenSCAP Policy Profile

The built-in OpenSCAP policy profile cannot be edited. You can, however,
assign *edited* copies of its policies to a new policy profile. This
will allow you to create a *customized* version of the built-in OpenSCAP
policy profile.

To do so, you will first have to copy the policy you want to customize:

1.  Navigate to <span class="menuchoice">Control \> Explorer</span>.

2.  Click the **Policies** accordion, and select the policy you want to
    copy.

3.  Click ![image](images/1847.png)(**Configuration**), and an option to
    copy the policy should appear; for example,
    ![image](images/1859.png) (**Copy this Image Policy**).
    
    ![image](images/1860.png)

4.  Click **OK** to confirm.

The new policy is created with a prefix of **Copy of** in its
description, and it can be viewed in the Policy accordion.

![image](images/1860-cppolicy.png)

You can now edit the copied policy. For instructions on how to edit
policies, see:

  - [Editing Basic Information, Scope, and Notes for a
    Policy](#policy-edit-basic)

  - [Editing Policy Condition
    Assignments](#policy-edit-condition-assignment)

  - [Editing Policy Event Assignments](#policy-edit-event-assignment)

After editing copied policies, you can now add them to a new policy
profile. For instructions on how to create a new policy profile (and add
policies to it), see [Creating Policy Profiles](#profiles-create).

Once you have a customized policy profile, you can assign it to a
container provider. See [Assigning Policy Profiles](#profile-assign) for
instructions.
